
Equestrian: Townend ready
Briton endures marathon journey in hope of landing Grand Slam

By Rachel Griffiths   Last updated: 19th April 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
<b>Equestrian:</b> Townend ready

Townend aboard Carousel Quest

    My entire career has been building up to a moment like this and I am not going to let it slip away just because of a volcano in Iceland.

Oliver Townend
Quotes of the week

British eventing star Oliver Townend is refusing to let Europe's air travel chaos get in the way of his Rolex Grand Slam ambitions.

The 27-year-old has already spent around £1,600 on a taxi and is planning to take a flight from Spain to Disneyland to reach the three-day event in Kentucky.

With flights cancelled in the UK due to the Icelandic volcanic ash cloud, the Briton was forced to drive from his base in Shropshire to Crewe, where he caught a train to London before boarding a Paris-bound Eurostar.

From the French capital, Townend then took a 14-hour taxi to Madrid, with the intention of boarding a plane to Miami on Monday before trying to make the journey to Lexington for the event.
Determined

"I got to Paris and I knew that I had to persuade someone to drive me to Madrid," said Townend.

"I just thought 'Yorkshire's not that different to French', so I grabbed a bloke and explained that I had to get to Madrid.

"It cost me £1,600 and took 14 hours, but I am determined to get to Kentucky.

"My entire career has been building up to a moment like this and I am not going to let it slip away just because of a volcano in Iceland.

"I want to be there to represent Britain and this is the biggest moment of my career so far and the biggest event of the year."

Townend's horses for the event, which gets underway on Thursday, arrived in Kentucky last week.

He is looking to win successive Badminton, Burghley and Kentucky competitions to complete the £230,000 Rolex Grand Slam, one of equestrian sport's most sought after prizes which has only been achieved once before by Pippa Funnell in 2003.

Surreal

"A lot of other people are going through far worse because of this situation but my attitude is 'I have a job to do and I'm going to do my best to make sure that I am there when the competition starts'," said Townend.

"This has to be one of the most surreal situations I have ever found myself in.

"I am in the back of a taxi speeding across the Pyrenees and on Thursday, I will be on my horse in Kentucky. It doesn't get much more exciting than this."