
Webber - We must capitalise
Red Bull driver aiming for race win

Last updated: 15th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Webber - We must capitalise

Webber: Delight at pole
Related links
Teams

    * Red Bull

Drivers

    * Mark Webber

Also see

    * Circuit guides
    * Driver profiles
    * Live coverage
    * £5 Free Bet

Mark Webber revealed his delight at taking pole for the Monaco Grand Prix, but stressed the need to capitalise on the position.

The Red Bull driver produced two fantastic laps to deny Robert Kubica top spot on the grid, with team-mate Sebastian Vettel lining up third.

It continues the outfit's terrific 2010 qualifying form, with a Red Bull car taking pole position in each of the first six races of the campaign.

But their race results have not been as impressive and, with rivals off the pace and Fernando Alonso having to start from the pit lane, Webber does not want to miss the chance of a big points haul.

"It's fantastic to be on pole and the team has done a very, very good job," he said.

"Pole at every race, it's very good for us and the team and (engine supplier) Renault. It is a good result for the team so we have to capitalise tomorrow.
Misfortune

"We know someone had misfortune today, we saw Fernando (Alonso), and we have to capitalise tomorrow."

Kubica was comfortably at the top of the timesheets for most of the final qualifying session, until a late run from Webber propelled him to pole.

The Australian said that he had planned to go for broke in the dying moments of the session.

"I told the team that laps three and four (in Q3) would be the ones I'd murder if I could," he said.

"The first of those was pretty good, but then on the second it all came together.

"To take pole at Monaco is a great feeling. It's a great challenge for the drivers here, but I'm very glad to be here."

Happy

He added: "I will wake up happy in the morning. It is a long race, I know that. It is a very, very narrow track, we will come across backmarkers, the track here changes during the GP.

"I am optimistic I can have a nice clean race and do the best job possible. The team has given us good momentum and we can give it a good crack from there.

"We have some reasonable opposition around us as is normal in F1."

Kubica claimed he was not disappointed with missing out on the top spot despite being in control for most of Q3.

"If the same car is 1.5 seconds quicker in Barcelona there is no reason why we should qualify in front of them," he said of the Red Bull's qualifying pace.

"I was surprised by the pace in practice but miracles don't happen in F1. Normally when you are very close there is a bit of upset but we have to be realistic, the team has done a great job.

"I am not disappointed, of course I am here for qualifying as best as I can and today we achieved it.

"The first one is what counts but second or third is still good. We have to be realistic, for me, for us, it is a great achievement and we hope for good points tomorrow."
