
Slick Khan pounds Paulie
WBA champion dominates on US debut

Last updated: 16th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Slick Khan pounds Paulie

Khan: Impressive win
Also see

    * Second Shout
    * Sky Sports experts
    * Champions
    * On Sky TV
    * £5 Free Bet

Amir Khan marked his US debut with a dominating 11th-round stoppage of Paulie Malignaggi at Madison Square Garden.

The WBA light-welterweight champion never looked in danger of losing his title as his speed and strength proved too much for the American challenger.

The British fighter was comfortably ahead on all three scorecards when referee Steve Smoger stepped in midway through the penultimate round.

Drama had preceded the contest, with a scuffle at the weigh-in resulting in Malignaggi falling through a promotional hoarding and adding an extra element of tension to fight night.

Khan went into the contest on the back of a first-round stoppage of Dimitriy Salita in Newcastle in August.

There was to be no repeat of the early finish, although the 23-year-old looked sharp and dangerous in the opening round as he landed a series of vicious jabs on the American.
Early lead

Khan then went to work on the body of Malignaggi as he began to build an early lead in the second round.

The two traded blows in the third, with the champion having the better of the exchanges as Malignaggi's face began to swell.

Malignaggi hit the canvas in the fifth but it was ruled a slip, as Khan continued to dominate behind his jab.

The former IBF title holder, who was fighting in front of a home-town crowd in New York, was powerless to stop the onslaught and continued to take punishment through the middle rounds.

With only five stoppage wins in his career, the challenger looked unlikely to make a comeback as Khan built an insurmountable lead on the scorecards.

At the end of the 10th round, the doctor checked on Malignaggi in his corner, but the fighter was allowed to continue.

The contest would not last much longer though, as the fight was stopped 85 seconds into the next round.
