
Hearn welcomes 'new era'
Snooker chief confident his plans will be voted in following meeting

Last updated: 5th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Interactive Frame
Hearn welcomes 'new era'

Hearn: Majority 'supportive'

    I think they've bought into the dreams and the concepts. There were some questions about ownership and I explained it's not a negotiable item.

Barry Hearn
Quotes of the week
Also see

    * Snooker Schedule
    * World Rankings
    * Snooker DVDs
    * £5 Free Bet

Barry Hearn believes he is seeing the 'dawn of a new era' following a successful meeting with players in Sheffield on Wednesday.

The World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association chairman has laid down plans to bring the sport into the new millennium following years in the doldrums that has seen it fall off the radar of the viewing public and sponsors.

In return, the Matchroom promoter intends to take a 51% stake in World Snooker, the commercial arm of the WPBSA, and make it an independent business.

The ownership aspect is the sticking point for some players, with Peter Ebdon chief among them, while leading coach Del Hill is also in opposition.

But Hearn was delighted with the outcome of the meeting, explaining his demands for a controlling interest in World Snooker was ' non-negotiable.'
Majority

"It was a frank exchange," he said. "There was a spectacular majority of people in favour which pleases me no end and I hope it's going to be a big vote in favour.

"I think they've bought into the dreams and the concepts. There were some questions about ownership and I explained it's not a negotiable item.

"It was a very black and white session as you'd expect and the vast majority were supportive which gives me a real buzz.

"The meeting was an opportunity for players to ask questions, and 20 or so of them actually stood up and asked questions, which was great.

"I'm seeing the early stages of the dawning of a new era."

Vote

Hearn confirmed he faced opposition during the meeting, but is confident the players will vote in favour of his plans in the near future.

"Peter Ebdon was consistent and said he doesn't agree with it, and we discussed it and agreed to disagree," he added.

"He came up afterwards and said, 'I really share your views on the future, I just don't like the thought of you owning it'.

"But that's okay, that's the deal, vote against it.

"Most of the view was that ability is the only criteria for success but me must have the opportunities to test our ability, which is common sense.

"Del (Hill) was treated to a full explanation of my feelings on the subject. Del might be the best coach in the world but what he knows about business can be written on the back of a packet of cigarettes.

"He says he's representing players and has the players' interests at heart, but I told him that I'm giving players opportunities, so aren't we on the same side. I don't like the way he works."

Hearn revealed the moment at which some players were convinced by his plan.

"I reminded them of my track interest in other sports, they asked me what my personal wealth was, and when I told them they realised I didn't need the money from this, which made them feel a little bit more comfortable perhaps," he said.

"The most important thing I stressed was that whoever runs this game, the players have to be together."