
A vision of victory
Adaptability and clear-thinking are giving England an edge

Nasser Hussain Posted 11th May 2010 view comments

England can dare to dream of winning this World Twenty20 tournament now.

I've not seen an England one-day side play better than this one did in the Super Eights; they were awesome, in all honesty.

As a unit they are very well-organised, well-drilled and they've got good plans. The bowlers have adapted well to different conditions and the batting is dynamic and direct.
Looking good: Wright and Morgan clearly make an excellent batting combination

Looking good: Wright and Morgan clearly make an excellent batting combination

How different it was three years ago at the 50-over World Cup when England, playing old-fashioned cricket, were 28-1 off 10 overs against a South Africa side that blasted their way to 85-1 off the same number of balls.

When those teams met on Saturday it was a complete role-reversal and it was great to see Kevin Pietersen's brilliance earn a convincing 39-run victory.
Best

Andy Flower and Paul Collingwood will be only too aware, though, that two bad overs - or a blinder from one of the opposing team - can rob you of Twenty20 success.

    I am more 'modern man' than some in the commentary box and say 'good on you KP'! His family is important to him, he's gone back home and as it turned out England didn't miss him. 

Nasser Hussain
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
World T20 semi-finals
4pm, Thu, Sky Sports 1
4pm, Fri, Sky Sports 1

Just Look at the defending champions, Pakistan. They've played some awful cricket at times but, like England, have still made the semi-finals and when you get to the last-four everybody starts level.

England and Australia have been the two best teams in the tournament so far in my view and, if form does have anything to do with it, they deserve to make it through to the final in Barbados.

But it won't be easy for either side. It looks as though England will play one of the subcontinent sides next - either Sri Lanka or India - and if that is the case they will have their work cut out on a St Lucia pitch that looks a bit tired.

England did stutter when New Zealand took pace off the ball and it took another superb effort from Eoin Morgan and Luke Wright to redress the balance.

Calm

That batting combination is a good one - Morgan in particular is very calm under pressure - and one that pulled England out of trouble against the West Indies, Ireland and New Zealand.

It's not all about resilience, though, because skill plays a major part. Morgan has shown how important it is to manoeuvre spinners around the park rather than run down the pitch and get stumped or caught on the boundary.

He has all the shots to do it and as Daniel Vettori found - and he won't be the last captain to do so - it's very difficult to set a field to someone with that subtlety and dexterity, who is also capable of hitting a long ball as well.

I've always liked Wright too, both as a person and a player. He's the sort of person that coaches and captains like - a good, honest tryer. His character reminds me in many ways of Matthew Hoggard in the sense that he will do anything for the team.

He's more brute force than Morgan and is a bit like a club cricketer playing Twenty20, picking his bat up and having a slog over midwicket. But if you keep nailing it there's absolutely nothing wrong with that.

Thinking

Another player who continues to impress me is Tim Bresnan. He's doing a great job in setting the tone with the first over, which is so important in Twenty20 because if you lose momentum first up, it's very difficult to get it back.

He's doing it against good cricketers as well, against the likes of Graeme Smith and Jacques Kallis, Jesse Ryder and Brendon McCullum, and he deserves that success because he's excellent at thinking on his feet.

I thought England's overall bowling display against New Zealand was very mature.

From the way the attack varied their pace, used the slower ball bouncer and set fields it was evident that there is a lot of thinking going on, both on and off the field, and Andy Flower must take a lot of credit for that.

Determined

Now he and the rest of the squad can look forward to having Pietersen back in their ranks for the semi-finals after he missed the Black Caps clash to attend the birth of his first child.

I think England have gone about the whole Pietersen situation in exactly the right way and as luck would have it everything's worked out perfectly.

I am more 'modern man' than some in the commentary box and say 'good on you KP'! His family is important to him, he's gone back home and as it turned out England didn't miss him.

This is the modern way. It's only an eight-hour flight back to the Caribbean from the UK and he won't be jet-lagged and exhausted.

Of course, there will be some who question whether he should have gone home if he slogs it up in the air second ball in the semi-final but I think that would be ridiculous. He could have played that shot anyway.

No, Pietersen has looked very determined out here, he's looked up for the fight and has found his form again.

When he comes to the crease I often say 'here comes England's best player' and then when he gets out the emails flood in to Sky saying 'why do you still call him that?'

The way he performed against South Africa is the reason I do. That innings belonged in a different class and underlined that he is a world-class player.

Pietersen was one player who did need to go and play IPL cricket because when he first came into England's Twenty20 side in 2005 he hadn't played many domestic Twenty20 games. He got a bit too excitable at first or he'd go the other way and retreat into his shell.

Now he's finding the right balance and most importantly of all finding form at the right time. From England's point of view, long may it continue.