
One more fight for Pacquiao
Filipino superstar wants Mayweather as one more fight before retirement

Last updated: 12th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
One more fight for Pacquiao

Pacman: Moving into politics
SKY BET ODDS
Manny Pacquiao to beat Floyd Mayweather - Evens
Bet now
*Prices subject to change
Also see

    * Second Shout
    * Sky Sports experts
    * Champions
    * On Sky TV
    * £5 Free Bet

Manny Pacquiao says he will fight one more time in his career, and hopes that it will be against Floyd Mayweather, after winning his latest battle to be elected to the Philippine Congress.

Pacquiao has not had his election results officially confirmed yet, but he is heading for a landslide victory in the southern Sarangani province of the Philippines.

As he waited for the official result, Pacquiao said that he would be making just one more appearance in the ring before calling it a day, and hoped it would be an epic showdown with Mayweather.

Pacman rose to the top of the pound-for-pound rankings during Mayweather's retirement, but the American has come out looking better than ever during his recent victory over Shane Mosley.

Pacquiao was equally as impressive in his showing against Joshua Clottey in March, and now the entire boxing world is craving a mega-fight between the two to see who really is the pound-for-pound king.
Fans

"Many fans really want me to fight Floyd Mayweather so I asked my Mama if we can give them one more fight, she said okay," Pacquiao told ABS-CBN.

The 31-year-old was due to face unbeaten Mayweather earlier this year but talks fell through when 'Money' wanted Olympic-style drug testing too close to the fight for Pacquiao's liking.

Promoter Bob Arum says that Pacquiao will definitely fight in November, either on the 13th or the 6th in Dallas or Las Vegas, but as yet the opponent is unknown - with Antonio Margarito an alternative to Mayweather.

"The cable television companies and satellite providers have put the date aside for us, so the table is set," said the Top Rank boss.

Pacquiao's financial adviser Michael Konzc also confirmed the dates for the fight, but again insisted that they will not give in to Mayweather's drug testing demands.

"There is no named opponent yet, but that is certainly when we will fight," Konzc said.

"If Mayweather wants to fight Manny, then no problem, provided he doesn't try to bully us into terms and conditions."
