
Button - Traffic will be tricky
"A few of us will be angry and unhappy at the end of Q1," world champion predicts

Last updated: 12th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Button - Traffic will be tricky

Button: Angry and unhappy
Related links
Teams

    * McLaren

Drivers

    * Jenson Button

Also see

    * Circuit guides
    * Driver profiles
    * Live coverage
    * £5 Free Bet

Jenson Button has joined the list of those fearing that increased traffic at Monaco this weekend could result in a fraught opening qualifying session.

The fear is that, with newcomers Lotus, Virgin and Hispania Racing likely to be over seven seconds per lap off the pace when all 24 runners are on the narrow two-mile street circuit during the initial 20-minute session, drivers will be held up.

Speaking earlier this week, Button's McLaren team-mate Lewis Hamilton said the session "could be a disaster" while Red Bull team boss Christian Horner has also voiced concerns.

World champion Button thinks luck will play a part in progressing through the session - and predicts that there may be one or two angry faces among the frontrunners afterwards.

"We've got to hammer it round. I don't think we can back off, we have to stay on it because that might be the quickest lap we do," he said.

"It will be tricky in Q1, but I'm sure we'll cope. A few of us will be angry and unhappy at the end of Q1, but we all have to deal with the same situation.

"It's the same for all of us. Some of us will get lucky, some of us won't. You can't do much about it now. That's the way it is.

"But there are going to be a lot of people asking for penalties I think."
Traffic

Jarno Trulli scored his only grand prix win on the streets of the Principality in 2004 but, now driving for Lotus, he is in a position to incur the wrath of rivals.

Even so, the Italian veteran is in agreement with Button.

"We're all going to have a lot of traffic," Trulli said. "It's a question of luck because maybe a quicker car slows down in front of me whilst I'm on a quick lap and I'm hindered.

"On the other hand maybe I'm on a quick lap, but not quick enough for a faster car which is probably four or five seconds (per lap) quicker than me.

"Neither way will work, but we will have to see what we can do to be free of traffic and do our job.

"Anything can happen in Monaco, and it is the place where you can have more chance.

"You can get one good lap by running round and round, and you get your lap in, but for us it's a bit more difficult to do that.

"But we are all in the same boat. I don't have a solution, and I don't care. I will go out and try to get some free space, get my lap in and that's it."

Queue

Hispania Racing's Bruno Senna, meanwhile, predicted that qualifying "will be a mess".

"With so many cars on track and with their difference in pace, I believe some people won't get a lap time," the Brazilian said.

"It happens in GP2, with some of the quick cars at the back because they were held up, or there was a queue in Rascasse to start a lap.

"It's going to be quite interesting. We have to make sure we are on the track as much as we can to get a lap in that counts.

"But it's going to be a big mess, and if it's wet it will make it even harder."
