
Bath run hot into final
Storm have second chance against Mavericks next weekend

Last updated: 2nd May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Competitions

Win some fantastic prizes in the Sky Sports competition section. All our competitions are free to enter.
Bath run hot into final

Tamsin Greenway: one more chance

    We have one more chance and we must remember that. We haven't got to the top of the league this year for nothing and we know we have the potential to do far better. We'll re-group and learn from the errors we made today and will come out fighting next week.

Tamsin Greenway
Quotes of the week

Regular season league winners Surrey Storm were beaten 57-42 by Team Bath in the Co-operative Netball Superleague play-offs.

The victory at Surrey Sports Park means 2009 champions Team Bath head straight for the Grand Final in Nottingham on May 15, while Storm will host Mavericks next weekend in the elimination semi-final for the chance to face Bath again at the Trent Arena.

The visitors started in sensational fashion with some powerful all-court driving and set out their physical intensions from the off.

Stacey Francis and Eboni Beckford-Chambers instantly made their presence felt as they threw everything at stopping the feed to sharp Storm shooter Rachel Dunn.

The reigning champions were quick to react to even a sniff of a chance whilst Storm took time to regain their composure and capitalise on the turnovers they produced. Bath's hard work was rewarded with a massive 19-8 lead at quarter time, whilst Storm's errors meant they had it all to do.

But Storm came out fighting in the 2nd period. Key playmaker Tamsin Greenway added an injection of pace and creativity to the mid court instantly after changing from the wing to the centre.

Storm were improving, with Dunn finding her range but at 17-25 a Bath Time out and injury to Jo Binns saw Bath's Jess Garland change Corbin to C and Binns to WA, as well as further changes in defence. The break certainly stifled Storm's momentum, as they managed just two more goals whilst Pamela Cookey remained cool under the basket, despite Natalie Seaton working the England shooter harder.
Charge

Half-time saw more changes from Storm, noticeably Greenway to GA, which had an instant effect for the home side. Her feeding to Dunn was far more direct and her movement provided more openings for her England teammate. Storm started the charge having their best spell in the match, as Dunn got back into the game with 14 from 15 attempts and Storm drew the quarter 15-15.

But it was not enough to break the Bath wall and the patches of brilliance were patchy, where as Bath were consistently good throughout.

Pamela Cookey and Sasha Corbin provided lightning pace and skill whilst the defence rarely gave the Storm attack an inch. Even Hannah Reid's outstanding defending in the final quarter for Surrey could not be converted consistently and a further blow to the home side saw England shooter Rachel Dunn hobble off injured in the final period.

Storm head coach Mary Beardwood said: "We made so many turnovers in the opening quarter but made so many errors, we can't expect to start like that at this level and not be punished.

Re-group

"We did some good things but not consistently and that is something we will work on for next week. As far as I am concerned we forget it about that match now, it's gone, we now must re-group, re-focus in time for next week and that is exactly what we will do."

Captain Tamsin Greenway added: "Obviously I am disappointed, we didn't do ourselves justice and all credit to Bath for playing so well but we have one more chance and we must remember that.

"We haven't got to the top of the league this year for nothing and we know we have the potential to do far better. We'll re-group and learn from the errors we made today and will come out fighting next week."