
Six-game ban for Big Ben
Two-time Super Bowl champion given six game ban

By Paul Higham   Last updated: 4th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Six-game ban for Big Ben

Roethlisberger: Six game ban

    In your six years in the NFL, you have first thrilled and now disappointed a great many people. I urge you to take full advantage of this opportunity to get your life and career back on track.

Roger Goodell's letter to Ben Roethlisberger
Quotes of the week
Also see

    * Schedule
    * On Sky TV
    * Video highlights
    * Photo Galleries
    * Stat Pack

Pittsburgh Steelers' two-time Super Bowl winning quarterback Ben Roethlisberger has been banned for six games without pay by the NFL, for violating the league's personal conduct policy.

Roethlisberger was accused of sexually assaulting a 20-year-old college student in a Georgia nightclub in March, but charges have not been filed by police.

The 28-year-old is also being sued in a civil case by a Nevada hotel employee who has accused him of sexually assaulting her in 2008, but again no criminal charges have been brought.

Despite that fact, NFL commissioner Roger Goodell still feels Roethlisberger's behaviour has violated the league's personal conduct policy and has ordered that he undergo a comprehensive behavioural evaluation by medical professionals.

The Steelers readied themselves for a ban by bringing back quarterback Byron Leftwich from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, as they will now be without their franchise triggerman for the first six games of the season.
Conduct

"The Personal Conduct Policy makes clear that I may impose discipline 'even where the conduct does not result in conviction of a crime' as, for example, where the conduct 'imposes inherent danger to the safety and well being of another person'," Goodell said in a letter to Roethlisberger.

"As the District Attorney concluded, the extensive investigatory record shows that you contributed to the irresponsible consumption of alcohol by purchasing (or facilitating the purchase of) alcoholic beverages for underage college students, at least some of whom were likely already intoxicated. There is no question that the excessive consumption of alcohol that evening put the students and yourself at risk.

"I recognise that the allegations in Georgia were disputed and that they did not result in criminal charges being filed against you. My decision today is not based on a finding that you violated Georgia law, or on a conclusion that differs from that of the local prosecutor.

"That said, you are held to a higher standard as an NFL player, and there is nothing about your conduct in Milledgeville that can remotely be described as admirable, responsible, or consistent with either the values of the league or the expectations of our fans."

Roethlisberger could have his ban reduced to four games upon the completion of his behavioural tests, but it is still a massive blow to the Steelers, who were crowned Super Bowl champions two years ago when led brilliantly by their quarterback.

Concerns

Goodell added: "Your conduct raises sufficient concerns that I believe effective intervention now is the best step for your personal and professional welfare.

"I believe it is essential that you take full advantage of the resources available to you. My ultimate disposition in this matter will be influenced by the extent to which you do so, what you learn as a result, and a demonstrated commitment to making positive change in your life.

"In your six years in the NFL, you have first thrilled and now disappointed a great many people. I urge you to take full advantage of this opportunity to get your life and career back on track."

A two-time Super Bowl winner and the highest-paid player in franchise history with a $102 million contract, Roethlisberger is a huge name in the NFL, and the move from Goodell is aimed at stopping him from getting himself in more unsavoury situations.

The Steelers, who pride themselves in the squeaky-clean off-field image, are furious at suffering more public off-field issues.

They traded wide receiver Santonio Holmes, who caught the winning pass from Roethlisberger at Super Bowl XLIII, to the New York Jets after he was banned for four games for failing a drugs test.