
Duty chases Guineas double
French filly bidding to emulate Ravinella in Paris

Last updated: 14th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Duty chases Guineas double

Special Duty
Also see

    * Racecards service
    * Results service
    * £5 Free Bet

Special Duty will be out to land trainer Criquette Head-Maarek a second English/French 1,000 Guineas double at Longchamp on Sunday.

The filly, who picked up the Newmarket Guineas in the stewards' room earlier this month, bids to emulate the heroics of Ravinella, who won both races for Head-Maarek in 1988.

The handler is happy with Special Duty's condition despite her hard race at Newmarket, where she crossed the line a nose behind Jacqueline Quest.

"I did the Guineas double with Ravinella and they are quite similar, both honest horses, of small size with a big heart and are big fighters," said the Chantilly trainer.

"This filly showed plenty of battling qualities at Newmarket and I hope she can do so again.

"She's fine, she looks well and she looks fresh so we are going to go to Longchamp. She seems to have taken the race at Newmarket very well.

"We are drawn 10 out of 10 on Sunday. That's not the best draw because the mile start at Longchamp is very close to the turn.

"That won't be an excuse. If she's well enough she has a good chance."
Ground

Joanna had Special Duty back in third place in the Prix Imprudence at Maisons-Laffitte last month and connections are hopeful Jean-Claude Rouget's runner can repeat the trick.

"It will be different ground to when they last met," said Angus Gold, racing manager to owner Sheikh Hamdan Al Maktoum.

"As I've said before, the horses trained in Pau had an easier winter and spring than those in Chantilly, so I'm sure Special Duty needed it more than Joanna.

"Equally though it was her first run of the season and hopefully she can confirm the form.

"We decided to wait for the French Guineas after that run and the ground should be pretty good for her."

Improved

Connections of Lady Of The Desert are bullish about the only British challenger in the line-up, but Brian Meehan's charge has to prove she gets a mile.

"She breezed on Thursday and we were very pleased with her," said Bruce Raymond, racing manager to owner Jaber Abdullah.

"We think she has improved considerably in the last two weeks. She's got a good draw in stall one and if she gets the distance she's got a very good chance.

"Whether she will get the trip is debatable. The French filly (Special Duty) got the distance at Newmarket, so there's no reason why we shouldn't.

"Obviously she's the one to beat - she beat us three lengths last year.

"Our filly is looking a lot better and we're very happy with her. We're very confident she'll run very close."
