
Selby surges past O'Sullivan
'Jester from Leicester' has the last laugh at the Crucible

Last updated: 28th April 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Interactive Frame
Selby surges past O'Sullivan

Selby: Into semi-finals
Also see

    * Snooker Schedule
    * World Rankings
    * Snooker DVDs
    * £5 Free Bet

Mark Selby reasserted his dominance over Ronnie O'Sullivan by sending the favourite out of the Betfred.com World Championship at the quarter-final stage.

Selby followed up victories over O'Sullivan at the 2008 Welsh Open and 2010 Masters with a 13-11 triumph at the Crucible.

It was another gutsy effort from the Leicester potter who, beginning the final session 9-7 down, reeled off four consecutive frames to claim victory.

Awaiting Selby in the semi-finals is Scotsman Graeme Dott after he overcome Mark Allen in a thrilling exchange earlier on Wednesday.
Gift

With the match fascinatingly poised at the start of the final session it was Selby who hit his straps quickest.

The 26-year-old won two of the first three frames of the evening to cut O'Sullivan's lead to 10-9, and was well placed in the next when he missed a routine black.

Selby struck the white so hard that the black jumped out of the pocket and six inches into the air before careering down to the baulk cushion.

For O'Sullivan the chance was an unexpected gift and he raced to 75 to take the frame.

That meant Selby needed four of the next five to reach the semi-finals, however he made quick inroads into his daunting task thanks to a classy break of 108 in the next.

O'Sullivan looked a shadow of his usual fluent self and, after losing the following frame, was guilty of missing guilt-edge pots in the 23rd as Selby's run of 46 put him ahead.

The momentum was now well and truly with the 2007 runner-up and he sealed another memorable win when three-times champion O'Sullivan produced yet another forgettable frame.

Speaking after the match, O'Sullivan, who needed only one snooker before shaking hands to signal defeat, said: "I take matches like that on the chin now."

He hinted at retirement, not for the first time, before stressing he would be back playing again next season.

Asked if he needed snooker as much as the game needs him, he said: "Not really, no. I love the game and it's been great to me.

Carter through

"I'll always be involved in snooker because it's in my blood but I don't need it.

"But it's like a drug and I know I will miss it, and I'll always think 'What if?'.

"I've had 17 years of trying and hoping and thinking that my game can turn around, so I know I've given it my best and I can't give it any more than I have done."

The remaining quarter-final clash went right down to the wire as Ali Carter edged a 13-12 epic with Shaun Murphy late on.

Resuming the final session with the scores locked at 8-8, it was 2008 finalist Carter who held his nerve in the deciding frame to send the 2005 champion packing.