
Serie A Round-Up
Milito strike gives Inter the title

Last updated: 16th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Serie A Round-Up

Milito: Match-winner
Click below for individual match stats:

Atalanta 1 Palermo 2
Bari 2 Fiorentina 0
Cagliari 1 Bologna 1
Catania 1 Genoa 0
Chievo 0 Roma 2
Parma 4 Livorno 1
Sampdoria 1 Napoli 0
Siena 0 Inter Milan 1
Related links
Teams

    * Atalanta
    * Bari
    *
      More teams +
          o Bologna
          o Cagliari
          o Catania
          o Chievo
          o Fiorentina
          o Genoa
          o Inter Milan
          o Juventus
          o Livorno
          o Palermo
          o Parma
          o Roma
          o Sampdoria
          o Siena

Also see

    * Watch on your PC
    * Serie A fixtures
    * Serie A stats

Inter Milan clinched the Serie A title and the second leg of a possible treble with a 1-0 win at Siena.

Diego Milito netted the all-important winning goal on 57 minutes to help Inter claim a fifth successive scudetto and secure the domestic double with the Champions League final against Bayern Munich to look forward to next week.

The win means Inter finish two points clear of second-placed Roma.

Roma did their job with a 2-0 at Chievo, but it was not enough for Claudio Ranieri's men.

First half goals from Mirko Vucinic (39) and Daniele De Rossi (45) were enough to give Roma the points, but Inter's win means the capital side finish in second spot

Sampdoria secured fourth spot and a place in next season's Champions League with a 1-0 win over Napoli.

Giampaolo Pazzini was the hero for Samp with the only goal of the game six minutes after the break.

Sampdoria's win means Palermo will have to content themselves with a place in the Europa League.

Edinson Cavani's late penalty earned Palermo a 2-1 win at relegated Atalanta, but they will finish in fifth spot.

Cavani fired Palermo in front on 12 minutes only for Fabio Ceravolo to draw the home side level three minutes after the break.

The game looked set to end all-square until Cavani popped up with the winner in injury time.

Parma finished the season in eighth spot after a 4-1 success over basement boys Livorno.

Goals from Davide Lanzafame either side of half-time (45, 46) put Parma in control and Stefano Morrone added a third on 51 minutes.

Thomas Danilevicius pulled a goal back for Livorno on 74 minutes, but Hernan Crespo had the final word with a fourth in the final minute.

Bari leapfrogged Fiorentina in the table after a 2-0 win over the Viola.

Cristian Stellini netted the opener for Bari on 36 minutes and substitute Emanuel Rivas added a second in the closing second to give Bari a top ten finish in the table.

Catania ended their season on a high with a 1-0 win at home to Genoa.

In-form striker Maxi Lopez scored the only goal of the game on 65 minutes.

Cagliari and Bologna shared the spoils in their final day encounter after a 1-1 draw.

Adailton gave Bologna a flying start with the opener after just three minutes, but Daniele Ragatzu equalised for Cagliari on 64 minutes.
