
Nigel's GP preview
Every Speedway Grand Prix live on Sky Sports in 2010

Nigel Pearson Posted 20th April 2010 view comments

Just when Speedway promoters thought they had seen everything, a volcano eruption causes travel chaos for many Grand Prix riders (and commentators) heading to Poland this weekend!

British based riders have been forced into a dramatic late change of travel plans following the flights crisis which erupted (pardon the pun) last week.

But, one way or another, the boys will line-up in Leszno on Saturday for one of the most eagerly awaited SGP seasons in recent times.
Holder: GP debut this season

Holder: GP debut this season

The new generation of riders have certainly spiced up the anticipation. I can't wait to see Chris Holder and Tai Woffinden racing against the brilliant Emil Sayfutdinov - not to mention the likes of reigning champion Jason Crump, Nicki Pedersen and Greg Hancock.
Gollob factor

And then there's the Tomasz Gollob factor. He's had no stress over the flight crisis, he's been testing in his home country despite the cancellation of league racing over there because of the sad death of their President and his wife.

    I'll stick my neck out and say that Nicki will win his fourth world crown.

Quotes of the week

It's a fascinating season ahead and, when looking at the title itself, I fancy Pedersen to come back strong after things went against him last season.

Crump is sure to be there challenging and Sayfutdinov will be in the frame to follow up his bronze medal from his stunning debut season last year.

Looking at Holder and Woffinden, I don't expect them to be challenging for a top three spot but they will enjoy some memorable moments over the 11 rounds, that's for sure.

Holder qualified through the Grand Prix Challenge and has been riding regularly in the early weeks of the season with the brilliant Poole Pirates in the Sky Sports Elite League.

Woffinden has made an inconsistent start with Wolverhampton and is sure to be nervous, but at the same excited when he lines up on parade on Saturday night.

Bomber

Fellow Brit Chris Harris is facing up to last chance saloon when it comes to his GP career. If he fails to make the top eight this time, I don't see him getting another pick from the organisers, so 'Bomber' is under a bit of pressure. Let's hope he can respond.

I personally feel Freddie Lindgren will step up a level this year and make the top eight for the first time. He's capable of winning rounds and Wolverhampton's Swedish star is the top man in the Elite League. He goes into the meeting in fine racing form, others have been forced to settle for testing only.

I'm going for a Tomasz Gollob win on Saturday - and I reckon Lindgren can make the rostrum along with Nicki Pedersen.

As for the title in October? I'll stick my neck out and say that Nicki will win his fourth world crown, if he can stay injury-free and have a bit of luck on his side.
