
Button relaxed at McLaren
World champion still obsessed with Formula One

Last updated: 14th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Button relaxed at McLaren

Button: More relaxed attitude

    I'm a lot more relaxed now than I was last year, definitely so, but I still think about Formula One maybe too much.

Jenson Button
Quotes of the week
Related links
Teams

    * McLaren

Drivers

    * Jenson Button

Also see

    * Circuit guides
    * Driver profiles
    * Live coverage
    * £5 Free Bet

Jenson Button claims that he has a more relaxed attitude after securing the Formula One World Drivers' title last season.

The British driver made headlines a year ago when he described himself as "boring" after saying he had devoted himself to the sport in his bid to become champion.

Ahead of this year's Monaco Grand Prix, Button believes his obsession has eased, although he still admits that racing occupies most of his thoughts.

"I'm a lot more relaxed now than I was last year, definitely so, but I still think about Formula One maybe too much," the McLaren driver said.

"Sometimes you need a break, to get away from it and have another hobby, which I have - triathlons, but I haven't done any since August last year.

"So most of the time I'm still thinking about Formula One, which is sometimes a good thing, sometimes it isn't.
Fresh

"That's because you do need to get away to ensure you are far more fresh when you return.

"So I would say I am pretty similar to last year, just a bit more relaxed."

Button believes that the heavy schedule of sponsorship work he is required to take part in at his new team has helped take his mind off racing.

He added: "I'm definitely busier here.

"The thing is, when you get a day off, sometimes you need to rest from everything.

"But I want to get out there and train to make sure it doesn't drop off.

"There has to be a balance to everything, and I've probably not trained as much as I would like.

Training

"But I'm definitely training enough for racing, and that's the most important thing to me. That's number one.

"It's a busy schedule with McLaren, but we make sure it's balanced, that it's not too overpowering and we're not tired when we get to the circuit."

The reigning world champion occupied the lower-half of the top 10 during the first Monaco practice sessions on Thursday and is hoping to make a step forward during qualifying on Saturday.

"I'm reasonably happy, although we don't know where we stand," Button said.

"But the Ferrari looks very quick, and I'm sure Red Bull are hiding their pace, so it's the normal people at the front and hopefully we'll be there tomorrow morning.

"Qualifying we have to keep our heads on, stay relaxed and try best to get through it.

"Getting angry in the session, which I'm sure some people will do, is not the right thing."
