
Open field in Sweden
Who will shine in Gothenburg ?

Kelvin Tatum Posted 6th May 2010 view comments

We had a wonderful opening round to the world championship - one of the best Grand Prix's we have seen for some time. The conditions were perfect on what is one of the best tracks in Europe.

It was spectacular and just got better and better as the heats went by. Jason Crump ended up winning which was a fabulous result. I didn't think he was ready to win so early in the campaign having had serious injuries last year. I fancied Jaroslaw Hampel who came second and I am sure he was disappointed not to win especially as he had first pick in the final but he did not quite manage to seal the deal.
Can Pedersen rule in Sweden? (Pic credit Fotospeedway.pl)

Can Pedersen rule in Sweden? (Pic credit Fotospeedway.pl)

From Nicki Pedersen's point of view it was a massive disappointment. He has clearly worked very hard mentally and physically and is very keen to win his title back but he did not make the final in Leszno. I would certainly not rule him out and expect him to bounce back -especially with Crump winning which must have rubbed salt into his wounds.

Sweden is going to be a different proposition as it is the first temporary track. The Ullevi stadium in Gothenburg has been a long standing venue over the years but it does not have a permanent track anymore. The likelihood is that the surface will be harder and there will not be as much grip. The track can cut up and be difficult at times but we have had a few GP's there over the seasons and they have still been spectacular.

    The likelihood is that the surface will be harder and there will not be as much grip. The track can cut up and be difficult at times but we have had a few GP's there over the seasons and they have still been spectacular.

Kelvin Tatum
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
Sweden Grand Prix
6pm, Sat, Sky Sports 3
Online with Sky Player
Click here to remote record

Last year we saw Emil Sayfutdinov clinch it in a very exciting Grand Prix and I expect this year to be just as exciting. I think there will be riders like Greg Hancock, Tomasz Gollob, Nicki Pedersen who will be absolutely determined to get back on track. I also think that riders like Chris Holder and Tai Woffinden will also want to improve.
Disappointing start

It was a disappointing first round for Woffinden - it was a bit of a baptism of fire but I hope he realises that eh cannot be too casual or blasé about it all. It is a serious business and you have to be very well prepared. He is definitely better than he showed in the first Grand Prix.

Antonio Lindbäck was third last year and it is great he has got a wild card slot. Lat year he was under the guidance of six times world champion Tony Rickardsson and that seemed to have a fantastic influence on him. It was difficult conditions but in the pits Rickardsson seemed to keep him calm and very focussed. He could have won last year and only a truly inspirational ride from Sayfutdinov kept him at bay. I am sure he will be looking to do something very similar as he is trying to rebuild his career and there is no better place to remind the organisers that on the biggest stage.

I think the first round was interesting because you had the established riders not doing so well. The talk before the GP season was about the influence of the youngsters and new riders coming in. Obviously they all did well and I think Jaroslaw Hampel coming back into the series looks very determined and has to be one to watch. Riders likes Fredrik Lindgren and Andreas Jonsson were disappointing and as Swedes I expect them to put in big performances.

Lindgren has plenty of GP experience now and in lots of ways he needs to win a GP to kick on - he actually top scored in Sweden last year but because of the odd way the scoring he did not make the final. The track holds no fear for him and I think he should go close.

Kelvin's Call: It will be a very competitive and open meeting, with ten potential winners. It is difficult to nail your colours to a mast but if you were to ask me I would say Nicki Pedersen. The reason behind it is because he just looks so determined to do well this year. I think he needs another chance and I think he will really go for it.