
20100421
'Sign of the times' says Patrick
American star says emergence of women racers "inevitable"

Last updated: 21st April 2010  
'Sign of the times' says Patrick

Patrick: Changing times
Also see

    * Keith Huewen
    * Features
    * Live on Sky Sports
    * Sky Bet

Danica Patrick says it's a "sign of the times" that as many American women as men will be attempting to qualify for the Indianapolis 500 next month.

Patrick, who shot to fame in the race five years ago, will join Sarah Fisher at the Brickyard, while Marco Andretti and Ryan Hunter-Reay are their only countrymen with full-time drives in IndyCar racing this season.

Times have certainly changed from when the 33-car grid was dominated by American men - something brought into even sharper focus by the fact that a total of four women are racing this season.

Besides Patrick and Fisher, Venezuelan Milka Duno and Swiss racer Simona de Silvestro will also be striving to qualify for the race on May 30th.

"It's a sign of the times," Patrick said. "People are becoming more open to it and giving it more chances.

"We're also seeing the other side of it, the marketing side as well.

"I didn't know how long it would take but as time changes and culture embraces a genderless world it was inevitable it would happen but I didn't know how long it was going to take."

Although Patrick is by no means the first woman to race at Indianapolis, none of her predecessors have garnered anything like the publicity she has attracted.

Janet Guthrie blazed a trail by qualifying for the 500 back in 1977, with Lyn St. James, Fisher and Dulko joining her and Patrick in racing there.

None have matched Patrick's results though, with the 28-year-old leading on her 2005 debut before eventually finishing fourth - a placing she improved upon with third last year.
Struggle

After reaching Victory Lane at Motegi in Japan two years ago, she is also the only woman to win a race but Patrick has struggled so far this season.

In three of four races held so far she has not finished better than 15th, her best result being a seventh in St. Petersburg, Florida.

Patrick has also dabbled in stock car racing, although her two outings in NASCAR's Nationwide series saw her finish down in 35th and 36th places respectively.

However, all her IndyCar outings so far in 2010 have been on road or street tracks and with the first oval race of the season in Kansas coming before the Indy 500, Patrick admitted she was happy with the switch.

"I'm not going to lie, I'm relieved right now," she admitted.

"I've had a rough start to the year, definitely not like last year where the first five out of six races were top fives.

"Sometimes you hit right from the get go and sometimes you have a strong end to the year. Sometimes you have a great year all year and sometimes you have a bad year all year.

"Sometimes it just goes your way and sometimes it doesn't...I'm just waiting for it to go my way a bit more often."