
Favour the brave
Last chance to blood new players for World Cup

Stuart Barnes Posted 10th May 2010 view comments

England announces its squad for the Southern Hemisphere tour on Tuesday. This is last chance for some of the young players Martin Johnson has ignored to date. Players who could transform England come the World Cup but players Johnson has adjudged unready for the last season's squad.

In Australia and New Zealand they would have already been thrown in at the deep end and brought on the equivalent autumn tour to the Northern Hemisphere but under this regime loyalty has been the concept to keep the tyros from the test door.
Fourie: a future star for England?

Fourie: a future star for England?

If England had a squad that was beating the world on a regular basis as they were when Johnson was a player it would make irrefutable sense to maintain solidity within the squad because the results themselves would be the barometer to prove most selections were right. The merest tinkering would be the order of the day.

Results from this season suggest much is wrong but loyalty remains in vogue. Johnson has failed thus far to make the intellectual leap from player in the thick of the woods with his men close knit around him to the leader peering down onto the forest from his lofty position above and away from the battle. Until he starts thinking like a manager with the future ahead of him and not a player with the past behind him, England and he will struggle and the inexorable illogicality of being loyal to international losers will continue.
Fresh faces needed

So it is last chance, too, for him to bring in those with the potential but not the experience to prove they can lift England from their current impasse. The squad is too big to give every player an opportunity to make the test 22. But that decision has been made now so let us hope that at least the midweek team has some fresh faces and the test team a few selections based upon a vision for the future rather than misplaced loyalty to the past.

    Most teams relish the flexibility of trying players in different positions on tour; the best, like New Zealand and Australia use tour to rotate some players and maximise test experience for the squad. Nothing so radical is expected from conservative England but a little spark, please

Stuart Barnes
Quotes of the week

If out of form players like Delon Armitage and Ugo Monye are not going to play in the tests they should be rested or taken to the Churchill Cup to assist the younger still element within that party. This allows Johnson to bring a raft of players to Australasia and get to know them at the very least. A fit John Golding and Rob Webber fit that criteria in the front row, as does George Skivington in the second row. In the back row I would like to see Andy Saull travel. There is an understandable swelling of opinion behind Leeds's South African open side, Hendrie Fourie but the Saracens man has star quality (which normally counts against in the Johnson orbit).

Behind the scrum anything other than the Leicester half backs of Ben Youngs and Toby Flood would be a dreadful error. That error will probably be made with Danny Care retaining the Number Nine shirt. The Harlequin is playing well but if England is serious about upping the quality of their attack by the World Cup they have to risk up and comers and not stick with the tried. That policy has been testing for England fans and must stop. Flood flourishes off the speedier service of Youngs who is technically the best now but could do with a few grey hairs before England trusts him.

It may be that he will make a few errors if selected but these errors have to be made and eradicated by the World Cup. Will Genia is vying with Fourie du Preez to be the world's best scrum half and he is only 22. The errors were made but the Aussies backed the future and not the past and are going to reap benefits in abundance.

Centre pairing

Olly Barkley should be twelve given his contrasting left to Flood's right boot and a high class alternative place kicker. At 13 John Clarke must tour and the selectors be open minded enough to give him a test berth if he plays well and Mike Tindall, the incumbent, does not in the first week.

The Northampton back three boys, Chris Ashton and Ben Foden have to play the tests but I would love to see Alex Goode of Saracens start at least one test at full back with Foden shifted to the wing where he would be equally threatening.

There is nothing wrong with playing Goode in one test and Foden in the other at full back with Mark Cueto, excellent as ever this Six Nations but not improving as a finisher, back on the wing when Foden is 15.

Most teams relish the flexibility of trying players in different positions on tour; the best, like New Zealand and Australia use tour to rotate some players and maximise test experience for the squad. Nothing so radical is expected from conservative England but a little spark, please.

Last four standing

There is no need to beg for some excitement at club level. The direst 2009 has been replaced by an incredible 2010. Saracens have transformed themselves from ugly caterpillar into beautiful butterfly while Bath's losing habit that saw them slumped in 11th place has been wiped clean and replaced with the winning fix that has taken them into the play offs and the unenviable trip to Leicester.

I have addressed Leicester's recent home defeat in this week's questions but on the subject of this game it is worth noting that injuries have been Bath's best friends. It sounds paradoxical but last season Bath were beaten by exhaustion and a far superior Leicester team before the kick off to what will be a repeat semi final. This time around long term injuries to Olly Barkley and Butch James has the core of the Bath attack playing as if it is the third week of September while long absences have enabled such competitors as Danny Grewcock and Andy Beattie to be finishing the season strongly. Leicester's superiority as a squad has enabled them to usually finish the season fresher than most but circumstances have contrived in Bath's favour.

Leicester should be favourites. This is not a game where defeat would be nothing more than a major irritation, it would leave Leicester bereft, Bath has the ability and skill to create chaos but whether they have the ability at the set piece and breakdown is another matter. Whether they have the mental strength to win is even more pertinent a question. They might come up with the answers to all of them but there are enough question marks to make Leicester favourites.

In the first semi final there are no doubts whatsoever about the mental strength of the Saracens. They are in the image of their technically limited but ferociously competitive centre turned Director of Rugby, Brendan Venter. Brick walls are for running through. Having taken Leicester and Northampton's home record they will be fearless at Franklin's Gardens. They will need to be that as well as very good as they were when they won here because Northampton has not made this superb seasonal journey to lose a home semi final. Vengeance is on the agenda for them.

It is a match I find impossible to predict. Better men will tell you as the week progresses which side will win and why but I'll settle for watching a tantalisingly tight match before taking up my commentary position in Leicester for another game with the propensity to shock. Bath will want to make this the last Leicester game for Lewis Moody before he joins them next season, Moody, being Moody, would rather be unpopular for a week or two when he finally moves west.

Stuart answers your emails...

Got a question for Stuart? Email him at skysportsclub@bskyb.com or use the feedback form below...

Centre of attention

Stuart, What are you views on Brendan Venter's behaviour at Leicester? I was not present and can only go on what I have read or heard from friends but am interested in your views. Venter has done wonders at Saracens but he is not making any friends - it seems he thinks he is the 'chosen one' of rugby except he has neither the charm or the panache of Jose Mourninho. Your thoughts please Stuart.
Glenn Roony

STUART REPLIES: Glenn, It is Monday morning as I write this and, like you, am yet to see the Leicester versus Saracens game. I'll let you know my thoughts on the Rugby Club when I have watched the match and the reported incidents (if there is coverage of the off field shennanigans. His comments aimed at referees has occasionally crossed the line - although referees have long been cosseted from transparent criticism - but whether he thinks he is Jose or just an incredibly committed winner is another matter. He is not short on self belief and this has rubbed off on his team. Call me old fashioned but Saracens first win at Welford Road remains the main story in my eyes.

Coming up, Staying up?

Morning Stuart, would Exeter be able to meet the Premiership criteria if they were to beat Bristol? Do you think that the Premiership is for clubs like Exeter or are they better off doing a Bedford - being happy playing great rugby in the Championship?
Sue Almer

STUART REPLIES: Sue,Exeter will be a welcome addition to the Premiership should they win the final against Bristol. The ground is superb with room to grow given the extra interest the Premiership would generate. It would be no easy feat staying up (the odds are loaded against any thrusting younger club that has not been part of THE club but come on, promotion and your team testing itself against th best, isn't that the purpose of sport?

The final four

And then there were four hey! I am delighted to see Saints doing so well this season but am also very pleased for bath and Sarries. The question is can any of them compete with Leicester? I know anything can happen in the play-offs but Leicester are masters of the big games and I just think they will have too much experience for the others. Then again Sarries definitely dented their armour with their win at Welford Rd, do you see that as a plus or a minus for Leicester heading into the semis?
Stuart, Leicester

STUART REPLIES: Stuart, You know, I really cannot work out whether that win helps or hurts Leicester. Any lingering complacency engendered by a sense of invulnerability as Welford Road has gone but the flip side is Bath will fear the Tigers slightly less and believe a little more becasue of Saturday's result. Saracens will fear no one now and have incredible confidence coming into the semi final; they will not be afraid if they face Leicester in the final and they have nothing (except an excellent Northampton side) to fear this Sunday afternoon. It is difficult to gauge the result but easy to state that suddenly this looks an incredibly exciting play off where two months ago only Northampton seemed a worthy opponent for Leicester. The Tigers remain favourites because of their knock out experience but defeat is no longer inconceivable as any of the four teams has a claim to winning the Premiership.

Super 14 shines

Not sure if you saw the Bulls v Crusaders games on Friday Stuart? What a fantastic and exciting game and I cannot wait to see the Tri- Nations this year. With the Aussies discovering some real gems it is going to be one heck of a tournament. The game did end in a bit of controversy though and I was wondering what you thought of that last gasp try which gave the Bulls the win?
Neil Croner

STUART REPLIES: Neil, I did and I thought the summer tours to New Zealand and Australia suddenly appeared much tougher than we already know they will be. There was a spectacular attacking display from the Hurricanes Friday morning before the engrossing events in Pretoria. The Crusaders backs played some classical stuff and will be hard to beat at home to the Brumbies next weekend. Losing so narrowly to the Bulls away is no disgrace. On the subject of the final try I thought a Crusaders hand knocked the ball backwards into the arms of Francoid Hoegaard but before that I believe Richie McCaw held up a Bulls attacker and should have seen the Crusaders awarded the scrum from which the Bulls eventually scored the try. There was always going to be a game where non neutral officiating came under the spotlight and this was it. Very controversial but a fabulous game of rugby and a reminder why the Southern Hemisphere remains clearly the leading rugby hemisphere.