
Staying on the rails
Super League's stars of the future need more nurturing

Phil Clarke Posted 28th April 2010 view comments

I read a fascinating paper last week entitled 'Coping with Academy to First Team Transitions in Elite English Male Team Sports'.

It was written by a man called Jon Finn and has looked at the successful and unsuccessful experiences of talented young players in rugby, football and cricket.

Most of the research done so far had focussed on the transition of professional sportsmen at the end of their sporting careers and very little time has been spent on the earlier development to perfection. Nowadays there is a growing focus on the successful transition of elite young players into first team regulars.
Eastmond: has been at St Helens since he was 13

Eastmond: has been at St Helens since he was 13

Jon's research for his PhD looked at the difficulties facing the pool of talented players in a club's academy team. He spoke with several expert coaches who had experience in this essential phase of a player's career and identified that a number of changes happen to a young man at this point in his life.

The player experiences changes in his 'athletic life' with the increases in the physical challenges at training and in matches. He's also maturing as an individual, with all the changes that involves and in particular what the experts call the 'psychosocial dimension of his life'; in basic terms, adapting to an adult social life.

    There are a variety of strains for the young player to handle and the most important one according to the coaches, was managing the free time a player has. For those who have become what is termed a 'full-time athlete', it is amazing how problematic the downtime can become. 

Phil Clarke
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
Magic Weekend
Sat & Sun, Sky Sports HD3
Click here for full live schedule

Many young players at this stage will either begin in the workplace or move onto academic courses demanding them to self-motivate and try to marry this to the demands of their sport.
Negative

It was interesting to read that the expert coaches felt that the sporting talent of the players was very similar and that it was the ability to handle a setback or negative situation that was the most important attribute.

They identified a correlation between the players that could find a positive in a situation (e.g. dropped to a lower team, injury etc) and the ones that went on to achieve success.

The global literature on this type of thing says that a person might need three positives for every negative that they experience. In many ways this is difficult to do, so a club need to find a way to help the players through this minefield of development.

There are a variety of strains for the player to handle and the most important one according to the coaches, was managing the free time a player has. For those who have become what is termed a 'full-time athlete', it is amazing how problematic the downtime can become.

Nobody trains for eight hours a day and the distraction for young players was a constantly reported problem. Boredom in this spare time was an issue that few, if any, clubs have helped players to cope with.

Should we consider the day-to-day content of the current development pathway? Can we improve the Player Contract to allow him to engage in non-sporting but personal developmental activities to reduce boredom?

Dreams

It was surprising to me that coaches viewed the social aspects to be more demanding than the physical ones. I'd have though that training and playing with older, stronger, faster man would be the biggest hurdle to overcome, and yet this doesn't seem to be the case. I understand that we all need to take responsibility for our actions and to a certain extent each player controls their own destiny.

However the major team sports in this country are collectively pouring millions of pounds into this area with limited results at present. In rugby league, we need a more intelligent approach to assist the talent available. We can't afford to lose the ones we've got.

The second biggest problem for these aspiring players was 'girlfriends'. The pressure from them to engage in distracting social activities or the interference from their parents trying to live their dreams through their children should not be underestimated in the transition to first-team regular.

Everything that I read in Jon's paper seemed obvious and instantly made sense, but I wonder how many clubs, who are investing huge amounts of money into 'youth development', have an appreciation of this level of research? Have any of them spent time to build a strategy to guide a player during this three-to-five-year period of his life?

It seems that in many ways it's a toughness test more than a talent test. All of the players in a club's academy have talent but which ones are tough enough mentally to cope with the changes and pressures?

What do you think should and could be done? Or if you have another question for Phil on any rugby league matter, team or player, use the feedback form below...