
Webber streets ahead
Australian leads home Red Bull one-two in Monaco

By Graeme Mair   Last updated: 16th May 2010  
Webber streets ahead

Webber: led from start to finish
SKY BET ODDS

Mark Webber is now 9/4 to clinch the 2010 Driver's Championship. Click here to bet.
Related links
Teams

    * Ferrari
    * Force India
    *
      More teams +
          o Hispania Racing
          o Lotus F1
          o McLaren
          o Mercedes GP
          o Red Bull
          o Renault
          o Sauber
          o Super Aguri
          o Toro Rosso
          o Toyota
          o USF1
          o Virgin Racing
          o Williams

Drivers

    * Mark Webber
    * Robert Kubica
    *
      More Players +
          o Sebastian Vettel

Also see

    * Circuit guides
    * Driver profiles
    * Live coverage
    * £5 Free Bet

Red Bull's Mark Webber claimed consecutive grands prix victories for the first time in his career with a dominant drive around the streets of Monte-Carlo.

The Australian led from start to finish and was followed home by team-mate Sebastian Vettel, to give Red Bull their second straight one-two finish.

Renault's Robert Kubica, who was passed by Vettel prior to the first corner having started from second on the grid, completed the podium in third.

Felipe Massa took fourth for Ferrari and McLaren's Lewis Hamilton, despite being hampered by a brake problem, claimed fifth.

Webber now leads the drivers' standings on 78 points, the same number as Vettel, by virtue of his two race wins this season to the German's one, while Red Bull have opened a 22-point advantage over Ferrari in the constructors' championship.
Button retirement

Red Bull enjoyed the perfect start as pole sitter Webber got away cleanly and Vettel, starting from third, sneaked past Kubica, who just managed to block off Massa to hold third.

The safety car was deployed almost immediately when the Williams of Nico Hulkenberg slid into the barriers after appearing to lose grip on a dirty line through the tunnel.

Defending world champion Jenson Button, who came into the race leading the drivers' championship, was forced to retire on lap three when his McLaren suffered engine failure.

Button revealed it was a team mistake that caused McLaren's first failure of their Mercedes engine since the 2008 Japanese Grand Prix.

"We left a bung in on the left-hand side of the car that obviously you're meant to take out on the way to the grid, and that's cooked the engine," he said. "It got very hot under the bonnet and I had to turn it off. I didn't want to leave oil on the race line.

"It would have been fine if we hadn't had the safety car. That was what ended it. At such a slow speed you can't get any air into it to cool it down."

Once racing resumed, Webber moved clear at the front with a succession of quick laps to leave everyone, including Vettel, trailing in his wake.

The safety car was kept busy throughout, Rubens Barrichello's crash at Massenet on lap 31 and then a loose drain cover at turn three on lap 44 briefly stalling Webber's charge.

But on both occasions he pulled away again straightaway and, as is usually the case on the tight streets in the principality, there was little in the way of overtaking.

The main action concerned Ferrari's Fernando Alonso, who was forced to start from the pit lane after being unable to take part in qualifying due to a crash in final practice on Saturday.

The Spaniard, aided by an early pit stop, was able to force his way through some of the backmarkers and eventually finished seventh.

Schumacher investigation

There was a touch of late drama when, with two-and-a-half laps remaining, Jarno Trulli's Lotus took out Hispania's Karun Chandhok.

The race looked set to finish under the safety car before it pulled in part-way through the final lap, allowing Mercedes' Michael Schumacher to steal sixth place from Alonso with an audacious move - the only piece of on-track overtaking during the final 40 laps.

The stewards immediately launched an investigation into whether the German had overtaken before the safety car period had finished.

Result
1. Webber Red Bull-Renault 1h50:00.000
2. Vettel Red Bull-Renault + 0.448
3. Kubica Renault + 1.600
4. Massa Ferrari + 2.600
5. Hamilton McLaren-Mercedes + 4.300
6. Schumacher Mercedes + 5.700
7. Alonso Ferrari + 6.300
8. Rosberg Mercedes + 6.600
9. Sutil Force India-Mercedes + 6.900
10. Liuzzi Force India-Mercedes + 7.300
11. Buemi Toro Rosso-Ferrari + 8.100
12. Alguersuari Toro Rosso-Ferrari + 9.100
13. Petrov Renault + 4 laps
Did Not Finish
Chandhok HRT-Cosworth 71
Trulli Lotus-Cosworth 71
Kovalainen Lotus-Cosworth 59
Senna HRT-Cosworth 59
Barrichello Williams-Cosworth 28
Kobayashi Sauber-Ferrari 27
Di Grassi Virgin-Cosworth 26
Glock Virgin-Cosworth 23
De la Rosa Sauber-Ferrari 22
Button McLaren-Mercedes 3
Hulkenberg Williams-Cosworth 1