
Bengals pick up Pacman
Troubled cornerback given one final chance to make it in NFL

By Paul Higham   Last updated: 12th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Bengals pick up Pacman

Jones: One more chance
Also see

    * Schedule
    * On Sky TV
    * Video highlights
    * Photo Galleries
    * Stat Pack

Controversial cornerback Adam 'Pacman' Jones has been given yet another chance in the NFL by the Cincinnati Bengals, who also picked up safety Gibril Wilson.

The Bengals have a history of giving troubled players one last chance to save their careers, and they have done the same by handing Jones a two-year deal in Cincinnati.

Jones has missed two NFL seasons during his career because of his off-field problems, with him being suspended for the entire 2007 season for violating the NFL's personal-conduct policy.

The first round pick for the Tennessee Titans was then traded to Dallas, but the Cowboys released him after 2008 when he again got himself in trouble and he missed out on playing last season.

The 26-year-old has been given one last chance, although he has been handed a minimal contract and been left in no doubt about what will happen if he steps out of line again.
Warning

"If he steps one inch out of line, we'll cut him," said Bengals defensive coordinator Mike Zimmer. "Other than taking the media hits that we're taking, it's a low-risk deal.

"You can hit a home run. It's not like he'll make a ton of money. What I'm talking about here isn't just the off-field stuff.

"We have guys here. We don't necessarily need him, but if he's here, he needs to be more disciplined with how he plays and how we want it done.

"We've got a bunch of strong character guys on defence. I'm not going to let this kid screw up our chemistry. I don't think he will.

"He looked me in the eye and shook my hand and said, 'Coach, I just want to play.' He seems very humble. He seems to understand."

With Leon Hall and Johnathan Joseph, the Bengals have two expert cornerbacks, but Jones would add top-class cover if back to his best, while he is also a dangerous kick returner and could play more on special teams for the time being.

Gibril joins

Jones is joined by safety Wilson, who has signed a one-year deal with the Bengals after leaving the Miami Dolphins just a 12 months into a five-year $27million deal.

The 28-year-old, who has also played for the New York Giants and Oakland Raiders, started 14 of Miami's 16 games last year and made 93 tackles before being released.

"We're excited to have Gibril join our secondary group," Bengals defensive backs coach Kevin Coyle said.

"He's a veteran who has played at a high level in the NFL, and he brings us a lot of tools. He can play both safety positions, and he will compete for time and make our group better."

Again the Bengals are well covered at safety, but they have added further depth to Zimmer's defence, which was one of the best in the NFL last season.
