
Brains over budget
Money alone does not make the rugby world go round

Stuart Barnes Posted 4th May 2010 view comments

Paris has an all-France Heineken Cup final and France complete control of both club and international rugby. The powerful overthrow of Ireland's brief hegemony is unquestionable after Toulouse and Biarritz followed in the national team's footsteps to overpower Ireland's finest.

A Grand Slam Ireland has been replaced with a Grand Slam France and two years of Irish dominance in the Heineken Cup has been overturned with almost a backhanded slap. Add Toulon's representation in the Amlin final and only Cardiff Blues stand between France and utter mastery of Europe.
Imanol Harinordoquy: Big game player for Biarritz

Imanol Harinordoquy: Big game player for Biarritz

Money plays its part but not as substantial one as defenders of the British and Irish game would have you believe. Voices are already crying for loosening of the salary cap limits which will, inevitably allow the wealthiest clubs to become even richer and stretch the gap between the rich and the rest within the English game.

These siren voices are using French superiority as a ruse to run away from the average Premiership side. The voices must be resisted. First and foremost there must be some sort of financial equality whatever French rugby is playing at. As in society the gap between the rich and the poor is the sign of good or bad health.
Money, money, money

English rugby is not in bad shape simply because of finance (although it is a significant factor) but rather because the way we played the game lacked the penetration to win the matches that mattered. Had Leicester been at their current level of form they would have been a formidable challenge for any remaining European competitor.

    Voices are already crying for loosening of the salary cap limits which will, inevitably allow the wealthiest clubs to become even richer and stretch the gap between the rich and the rest within the English game

Stuart Barnes
Quotes of the week

Next season France imposes a wage restraint which may, or may not be taken seriously, as in England where certain clubs are adept at finding loopholes. Level playing field or not as far as the accountants go, it is the knowledge of winning games on the field that counts.

Take Toulouse for example. The manner in which they drove for fifty minutes before using changing the pace and point of attack of their attack and leaving Leinster for dead had more to do with rugby intelligence than having a crop of good players.

Toulouse's wage bill is something of a myth. They have a decent budget but they have never been the highest payers in France. The quality of their academy and the desire of the best players to play for the elite club is a throwback to pre-professionalism where true professionalism was evaluated on the field and not the profit and loss account.

This is not the greatest Toulouse team but so steeped in rugby knowledge is it that no side should underestimate their ability to turn a game in a few minutes as they did Saturday. It was a triumph first and foremost for brain although brawn and budget is not totally dismissed!

Creaking Munster

Sunday was more a matter of power as Munster's aging men creaked once too often. There was to be no repeat of the stunning display that left French champions, Perpignan, reeling at home. Time catches up with us all and it grabbed Munster Sunday.

And yet....has the semi-final been at Thomond Park I am sure Munster would have beaten Biarritz and Leinster would have been a much tougher nut to crack in Dublin. So while France has played its way to the top of the European tree there is no need to scream and panic, no need to create panic and claim France is leaving us behind because of money. It wasn't financial supremacy that won them a Grand Slam; it was a state of mind.

The Ospreys had that very state of mind and could quite easily have been preparing themselves for a final. They played positively and scared the life out of Biarritz in the Basque country. They notably beat Munster more recently. Defences do win games but not always...Leinster defended magnificently for much of Saturday but wit and invention undid them.

Looking forward

It is not about just money, or just power, or just defence - rugby is too complex for one aspect to make all the difference. That is the lesson English clubs should learn from this year's Heineken Cup. If there was one defining factor that made the difference it was home advantage in both the quarter and semi finals. Home advantage remains a massive edge. Biarritz had a relatively easy pool as did Toulouse (the Blues found their best form far too late) and this paved the way to Paris.

Hopefully the absence of a British and Irish side in Paris will not deflect interest from what has been a marvellous year's rugby. There will be colour and passion in abundance not to mention an almighty forward battle. I think the variety of Toulouse will be decisive but Biarritz - with Imanol Harinordoquy and Dimitri Yachvili will be no pushovers.

Race for fourth

This weekend the main story is Bath's battle to make the play-offs. Leeds look an easy opponent on the face of it. Safe from relegation with nothing to play for, Bath will hope they indulge in a game of running rugby to play right into their talented hands. Anyone who has played with and against Neil Back will know otherwise. He will want to win this match and send Leeds off for summer recess in buoyant mood. A thirty-point hiding would take the shine off their superb season. Bath were irresistible against Wasps and should prevail at the Recreation Ground but only a fool would treat Leeds lightly after their season.

If Bath were to slip will Wasps have enough left in the tank to beat Newcastle away? Their season has collapsed with those defeats to Bath and Cardiff Blues? Question marks in High Wycombe and question marks at London Irish should they finish with a whimper at home to a Northampton team keen to win and guarantee home advantage in the semi and set up an immediate rematch with Saracens who wind their regular season up with a gentle visit to Welford Road where the Tigers might just be looking to make a psychological point or two should the two sides meet later this month at Twickenham.

Stuart answers your emails...

Got a question for Stuart? Email him at skysportsclub@bskyb.com or use the feedback form below...

A storm brewing?

Hi Stuart, Great coverage as ever. My questions, pure and simple, are these: can Mike Brewer turn Sale's fortunes around and can Jason Robinson's coaching spell at the club be seen as a success given we are still in the Premiership - just! Cheers big guy.
Dave Staunton

STUART REPLIES: Dave, Mike Brewer is an unknown in Premiership terms; he is certainly a smart rugby brain so fingers crossed for him and Sale. Was Jason Robinson a success...I think the league position gives its own succinct verdict.

Long in the tooth

Stu - I'm in need of therapy after watching Munster go out! Hope you can provide some. My mates reckon this is it for us - the end of an era. Two semi-final defeats doesn't add up to much in the harsh light of day. I wonder if Tony McGahan has what it takes to breath life back into us. I sincerely hope so because everything I've seen of him has been positive. But I guess if the results and silverware start to dry up then maybe the writing is on the wall???
Baz Thomas

STUART REPLIES: Baz, I had the temerity to suggest this team was on the decline before round six of the pool games; Munster produced two fine performances and left me with some egg on the face but against a Biarritz team full of power (but not a particularly impressive overall effort) the frailties were exposed. Injuries played a part but as Biarritz had a key man missing in Damien Traille the excuses are thin on the ground...The side does look a little ragged in the light of San Sebastien but there are an awful lot of teams who would see consecutive semi final losses as success. That Ronan O' Gara was so devastated is a credit to the Munster spirit....I don't think Tony McGahan is responsible for defeat, rather the aging process that beats us all in the end....The sheer will and pride of Munster will keep them up there but a rebuilding ON the field is required before a third Heineken Cup finds its way back to Limerick and Cork.

Ruddock gone

I for one am sad to see Mike Ruddock leave Worcester. I've always felt the players and most of the fans respected him - what are your views on him? I kind of understand why he resigned but if in the future there isn't relegation from the Premiership then surely he might as well have stayed on and got us back up before enjoying a long run in the top flight..... Your view?
Imogen, Bedford

STUART REPLIES: Imogen, Relegation IS an issue and Mike Ruddock failed to beat the drop. Had he been Neil Back I would have been lenient in an assessment but Worcester has assets to achieve more than just relegation. The failure to provide the team with the right half backs and the failure to give the team a clear structure is a clear proof of failure, plain and simple. Even had there been no relegation, could you honestly say the side has travelled anywhere but backwards under his leadership? Resignation was the only honourable option to take.