
Busch wins at Richmond
Polesitter passes Gordon in closing stages as Harvick takes overall lead

Last updated: 3rd May 2010  
Busch wins at Richmond

Busch: Off the cuff
Also see

    * Keith Huewen
    * Features
    * Live on Sky Sports
    * Sky Bet

Kyle Busch took his pole position and turned it into victory in the Crown Royal Heath Calhoun 400 at Richmond International Raceway on Saturday.

Having passed Jeff Gordon on a restart with five laps left, Busch managed to stay clear and take the chequered flag by 0.755 seconds for his 17th Sprint Cup win.

Kevin Harvick finished third ahead of Jeff Burton and Carl Edwards. Juan Pablo Montoya, Martin Truex Jr., Ryan Newman, Marcos Ambrose and Jimmie Johnson completed the top 10.

The result means that Harvick has taken over the lead in the series standings from four-times defending champion Johnson, who trails by 10 points after 10 races.

Busch, who led 226 of 400 laps, made the decisive move by passing Gordon's Chevrolet round the outside of turns three and four of the 0.75-mile short track.

"I figured I was going to get the outside (for the last restart)," said Busch, who won the spring race at Richmond for the second straight year. "All I wanted to do was just get into Turn 1 smooth and get a good launch up off Turn 2 down the backstretch-and then make sure I got into (Turn) 3 without over-driving it.

"I knew if I could just get through Turn 3 OK and hammer down off Turn 4 and get him cleared that it would be pretty good-and it worked. That's what I did. Did I have a plan? Was that exactly my plan? No. I was just going to drive it as hard as I could, and make whatever happened happen. It worked, just off the cuff."
Disappointing

Gordon, who led 144 laps, therefore finished second for the eighth time since his last win in April 2009, 39 races ago.

He led by 2.566 seconds when Elliott Sadler's slide through the frontstretch brought out the fourth caution of the race on lap 367 but, running on tyres that were only three laps old when the pitlane opened, he opted to stay on track.

In contrast, Busch was one of a group that headed for pit row in preparation for a restart on lap 378. Gordon was leading when the sixth caution flew on lap 389 for Sam Hornish Jr.'s wreck on the backstretch, setting up the five-lap dash to the finish.

"I've been doing this long enough to know they don't give out trophies for leading any lap other than the last one," said Gordon, who was angry with Hendrick Motorsports team-mate Johnson last week after a coming together at Talladega.

"It's a little disappointing that we haven't won some races yet, but if we keep doing this, those will come. We've got to keep putting ourselves in position."

Busch ran away with the first half of the race, leading all but eight of the first 229 laps before Burton powered past him in turn three on lap 230.

Burton held the top spot for 20 laps, only to surrender it to Gordon, whose car came to life in the middle of a long green-flag run.

Gordon then extended his advantage through a cycle of green-flag pit stops, and by lap 300 he had stretched his advantage over Harvick to 2.878 seconds.