
Party poopers

Miles Harrison Posted 7th May 2010 view comments

Fourth-placed Bath face Leeds at the Recreation Grounds on Saturday afternoon, where the home side need a victory to cement their place in the Guinness Premiership playoffs.

A stunning run of eight wins in nine games has propelled Steve Meehan's side into the final playoff spot, and they will look to continue that form into the semi-finals with victory over a Leeds side that have secured their Premiership status for another season.
Bath were 20-15 winners at Leeds back in January

Bath were 20-15 winners at Leeds back in January

However, you can expect the Yorkshire side to be as dogged as ever, and with the threat of relegation now faded, Leeds could throw caution to the wind and attempt to sign off the season on a winning note.

Miles Harrison will be at the Rec to see if Leeds can cause a shock, or if Bath can continue their hot streak of form.

Bath have been in superb form over the last few weeks but are there any doubts over their mental strength?

    Bath need to win and that usually makes a difference in these games. But there is another factor here - the way Bath are playing. You could argue that no side in the Premiership would currently go to the Rec as favourites.

Miles Harrison
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
Bath v Leeds
2pm, Sat, Sky Sports HD3 & Sky Sports 3
Online with Sky Player
Click here to remote record

MILES REPLIES: Of course, if they win this weekend and next, Bath will find their resolve really being tested. But as they stand they could have done no more recently, aside from winning at Welford Road. They didn't do that a few weeks ago and that will inevitably cause some to still question their challenge, but Bath are desperately trying to give themselves the best chance to win in Leicester next week and you cannot doubt how well they have been playing recently. Mind and body have been going well since Christmas.

We have spoken about Olly Barkley and Butch James in the past Miles, but who else has caught you eye for Bath of late?

MILES REPLIES: This is a good point because it is not all about Barkley and James - I think Luke Watson's arrival has been a massive plus for Bath. And, as Steve Meehan said this week there are a number of other factors involved here too, like the return to form of the likes of Maddock and Mears, plus a new-found assuredness in the play of Abendanon. As ever, in this game of ours, it is a team thing. You can't do anything in rugby relying on merely one or two.

Just a word on Olly Barkley who has been playing very well at inside centre for Bath - could he be the answer for England in the summer Tests?

MILES REPLIES: If he plays like he did against Wasps then, yes, he could. I have always liked the look of Barkley as a player because when he plays at his best, he has that touch of class. It is good to see him back fit again and a strong finish to the season could well propel him into the mix with England once more. Injury-hit Riki Flutey has not been at his best since the Lions.

Talking about England hopefuls, the Leeds flanker Hendre Fourie has been in great form for them this season, hasn't he?

MILES REPLIES: Yes he has and he is another player who I would expect to be involved with England this summer, and not just because it will be a large squad. Fourie has caught the eye all season and deserves a crack.

Neil Back's view on Fourie might be seen by some as coming from a Leeds perspective but it shouldn't be. Back knows his stuff, especially when it comes to a player in this position, and he believes Fourie is a good bet to be involved in the World Cup next year. If that is the case, England need to have a look at him sooner rather than later.

Leeds' skipper Marco Wentzel has been quoted as saying that he honestly doesn't care about the Bath game because they are safe in the Premiership. That's not the Neil Back and Andy Key way though and Bath would be silly to take them lightly wouldn't they?

MILES REPLIES: I know what Wentzel would have meant and he is right - the Bath game does not matter when it comes to deciding the relegation issue. But, Back and Key won't let Leeds relax and what they might get from their team is a performance of more freedom with the shackles off. That could make Leeds dangerous because a happy team is a dangerous one, and Leeds have plenty to be happy about at the moment.

Despite this can you really see anything but a Bath win?

MILES REPLIES: To be honest, no. Bath need to win and that usually makes a difference in these games. But there is another factor here - the way Bath are playing. You could argue that no side in the Premiership would currently go to the Rec as favourites.

Whether Bath can do it in Leicester next week - should they beat Leeds - is another matter, but you have to fancy Bath to win on their home patch on Saturday. Leeds will not roll over but Bath have an extra edge and they are playing so well at the moment. Although nothing is a given as Leeds have proved since the turn of the year when it seemed everybody was writing them off.