
Mavericks crush Carnegie
Hertfordshire dominate in second half to wrap up win

By Rachel Griffiths   Last updated: 14th March 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Competitions

Win some fantastic prizes in the Sky Sports competition section. All our competitions are free to enter.
Mavericks crush Carnegie

Brownfield: Scored 34 from 40

    Leeds held Mavericks for two quarters but the experience of the Mavericks squad became evident.

Marion Lofthouse
Quotes of the week
Also see

    * Netball Fixtures
    * Forum
    * Photos

Hertfordshire Mavericks reclaimed the third spot in the Co-operate Netball Superleague standings with a 62-34 victory against Leeds Carnegie.

Replacements Vickyln Joseph and Naida Hutchinson helped Mavericks to the decisive win as home side Leeds struggled to feed their shooting duo.

The first half of the match was tightly contested, with Leeds falling three goals behind in the opening quarter before holding the visitors to 10-10 in the second.

Mavericks then unleashed their attack in the second half after making substitutions, romping home in the final quarter to the wrap up the victory.

Carnegie were obviously feeling the effects of Netball Europe, with key players Rachel Shaw, Lauren Potter and Natalie Haythornthwaite away on under 19 England duty.
Frustrated

Leeds head coach Marion Lofthouse was frustrated to see her side defeated after making a promising start to the game.

"Leeds held Mavericks for two quarters but the experience of the Mavericks squad became evident," said Lofthouse.

"Leeds lost the initiative in the third quarter and we were unable to penetrate the Mavericks defence."

"Although it was not the result we wanted or needed, elements of the game were good but lack of experience caused unforced errors which, should we wish to contest for a top four place will have to be remedied."

Acting head coach for Mavericks Jo Webb was thrilled to see her side up the ante after half-time.

"Leeds really pushed us in the first half," said Webb.

"We found our rhythm and showed the kind of netball we are capable of building towards the end of the season."

Carnegie: GS: Jo Walker, GA: Carla Dziwoki, WA: Danielle Bloomfield, C: Natalie Panagarry, WD: Steph Wilson, GD: Joanne Davies (c), GK: Afrika Morris. Bench: Laura Gregory, Chantelle Hankin, Anna Newell, Kate Lightfoot, Lisa Ferneyhough.

Shooting stats: Walker 16/17 94%, Dziwoki 13/16 81%, Hankin 5/6 83%

Mavericks: GS: Louisa Brownfield (c), GA: Monique Wood, WA: Rose Morgan-Smith, C: Karen Atkinson, WD: Georgie Schmidt, GD: Hazel Schofield, GK: Amanda Newton. Bench: Vicklyn Joseph, Naida Hutchinson, Denika Campbell-Lee, Naomi Stenhouse.

Shooting stats: Brownfield 34/40 85%, Wood 6/9 67%, Joseph 22/30 73%