
Light work for Jankovic
Seventh seed wins in straight sets

Last updated: 13th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Light work for Jankovic

Jankovic: Straight sets win
Also see

    * Tennis Results
    * WTA Schedule
    * Tennis on Sky
    * Messageboards

Jelena Jankovic reached the quarter-finals of the Madrid Open on Thursday after thrashing local favourite Anabel Medina Garrigues 6-2 6-0.

The seventh seed put aside her shaky start to the tournament in overcoming Serbian compatriot Ana Ivanovic 24 hours earlier by making light work of her Spanish opponent.

She will face a tougher contest in the last eight on Friday, however, if the performance of her opponent Aravane Rezai is anything to go by.

The 23-year-old from France gave a gutsy display to beat Germany's Andrea Petkovic 6-4 7-6.

Rezai's power and aggression unsettled her opponent throughout, but her desire to finish Petkovic off almost lost her the second-set tiebreak.

She raced into a 6-1 lead but became flustered over the time Petkovic was taking between serves.

Rezai produced a succession of wild shots as the German fought back to level at 6-6 but Petkovic could not complete the comeback.

She eventually lost 10-8 and left the court in tears while Rezai soaked up the applause of the Madrid crowd.
Fighting

"I like fighting like I did today and asking questions of myself," Rezai said.

"It gives me a lot of confidence to win matches with a tiebreak like that. I could have won more easily but she played well in the important points."

Meanwhile, eighth seed Samantha Stosur set up a quarter-final meeting with Venus Williams after beating Switzerland's Patty Schnyder 7-6 6-2.

The Australian is currently in form and, having reached a career-high number eight in the rankings earlier this month, is looking to improve on her semi-final appearance in last year's French Open.

"I think I've been playing well since Indian Wells (hard)...and it's just kept running on to clay," Stosur said.

"I enjoy playing on clay. It's just one of those things of winning several matches in a row and building confidence."

China's Li Na, the 13th seed, beat Ukrainian Alona Bondarenko 6-3 6-4 to set up a meeting with Shahar Peer in the last eight, the unseeded Israeli beating Spain's Arantxa Parra Santonja 7-5 6-2.

The fourth quarter-final pairing of Czech 16th seed Lucie Safarova and Russia's Nadia Petrova was decided on Wednesday.
