
Back to their best
Who will keep their heads?

Stevo Posted 23rd April 2010 view comments

I was impressed with Leeds in the Challenge Cup and think they are coming back to form.

I have been saying it for awhile now - wait until the good weather comes good and then see Leeds explode. They are a solid ground team and their quality and class really comes to the fore as the ground gets harder.
Tony Puletua in action for Saints

Tony Puletua in action for Saints

Some of their losses and poor performances have been down to the bad weather. I know they have won grand finals in the past when the weather has been wet but that is a totally different kettle of fish to having to do it week in and week out in atrocious conditions.

Watching them last week I thought their key players had got back into the swing of things. There seemed to be a change in the attitude of the likes of Rob Burrow - who has not had a good eighteen months really. He has struggled for form and maybe he has tried to become the creator rather than the devastator. For me he is the sort of player to cut defences to shreds with darting runs but lately he seems to have taken a more director sort of role, which does not suit him. Give him some room and an open licence for him to do what he wants and leave the distribution to Danny McGuire.

    Watching them last week I thought their key players had got back into the swing of things. There seemed to be a change in the attitude of the likes of Rob Burrow - who has not had a good eighteen months really.

Stevo
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
St Helens v Leeds
5.30pm, Sat, Sky Sports HD2 & Sky Sports 2
Online with Sky Player
Click here to remote record

Ryan Hall is also hitting his straps but I think Brent Webb is playing with a lot more confidence. It has taken him a while to get back from injury but I really think he is playing very well.

It is hard to go to St Helens and win - yes they did have a shaky start but they are also finding their form. I thought it was ridiculous that Saints coach Mick Potter was criticised as much as he was - I didn't think it was right but fans can be a bit fickle and sometimes can be too quick to judge. I think it has only made Potter and his players even more determined to prove those critics wrong.

Saints have some great players and I have been really impressed with Tony Puletua. He is some forward and he will lead by example. The likes of Keiron Cunningham and James Roby are also quality players and will be in the front line leading the charge.
Star man

Well I think burrows is going to play a major part in this game. But what role will he take? That could be the difference come Saturday night.

Stevo says

I am not sure I want to call this one. I am relishing a fantastic challenge and this could be one of the games of the season. I think it will come down to the team that has the most discipline and goal kicking will be vital.