
FA quiet on bribe claim
Lord Triesman claiming rival countries are colluding

Last updated: 16th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
FA quiet on bribe claim

Triesman: Claims rival countries are colluding

The Football Association have refused to comment on reports its chairman Lord Triesman said Spain was planning to bribe World Cup referees.

Triesman alleged in a report in the Mail on Sunday that Spain could end its bid to host the 2018 World Cup if rival bidder Russia helped bribe referees in South Africa this summer.

The 66-year-old Labour peer claimed in a conversation with a former civil servant aide that votes from Spanish Fifa members would then switch to Russia for 2018.

A European bid is being tipped to host the 2018 tournament with England up against Russia and joint bids from Spain/Portugal and Belgium/Netherlands.

The other bidders, although they are mainly focused on the 2022 tournament, are Australia, the United States, Japan, Qatar and South Korea.
Help

"Spain are looking for help...to bribe the referees," he was quoted in the Mail on Sunday.

"There's some evidence that the Spanish football authorities are trying to identify the referees...and pay them.

"My assumption is that the Latin Americans, although they've not said so, will vote for Spain.

"And if Spain drop out, because Spain are looking for help from the Russians to help bribe the referees in the World Cup, their votes may then switch to Russia."

It remains to be seen what damage the reported bribery allegation causes to England's World Cup bid, although there are almost certain to be ramifications as world governing body's rules prohibit World Cup bidders from talking about rival bids.

England's World Cup bid team has faxed letters of apology to the Spanish and Russian football federations, distancing itself from its chairman's allegations about the 2018 campaign rivals.

In the reported tape recorded conversation with former aide Melissa Jacobs, Triesman also talks openly about the John Terry scandal, the governance of Premier League football clubs and criticises former Prime Minister Gordon Brown's election campaign as "awful."

Triesman reportedly said ex-England captain Terry did not feel he had done anything wrong over his affair with former club and country team-mate Wayne Bridge's former partner, Vanessa Perroncel.
