
Queen Anne next for Ouqba
Lockinge runner-up to bid for Royal revenge over Paco Boy

Last updated: 16th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Queen Anne next for Ouqba

Ouqba
Also see

    * Racecards service
    * Results service
    * £5 Free Bet

Ouqba looks set to re-oppose Paco Boy at Royal Ascot after chasing home Richard Hannon's colt in the Lockinge Stakes.

Last year's Jersey Stakes winner got to within a length of the classy miler at Newbury and connections of Barry Hills' four-year-old believe Ascot will suit better.

The pair appear poised for a rematch in the Queen Anne Stakes - a race that Paco Boy won 12 months ago.

"It was a great run and he'd been pleasing us at home. We always thought he had improved a bit from three to four and he obviously showed that," said Hills' son and assistant Charlie.

"He was only beaten three-parts of a length by one of the best milers for some time.

"We'll stick to a mile for all the best races at that distance. We're pretty sure he got the trip. I don't think being drawn one helped, but that's not an excuse.

"We thought about the Queen Anne straight after the race. The track at Ascot suits him and a stiffer mile would probably suit him better."

Lockinge third Lord Shanakill is set for a drop back in trip after his pleasing reappearance run, his first start for new trainer Henry Cecil.

"He has had a very good blow, which we thought he'd need, but he's A1," said owner Mark Gittins.

"We expect him to come on for the run a great deal. He's always needed that first run back, and we think he's up to the mark to win another Group One in the UK.

"We will probably go back to seven (furlongs) now - or even a stiff six - to ensure he definitely gets the trip.

"We would might look at Ascot for him, but there's nothing really over seven furlongs so we wouldn't rule out looking for a Group One overseas.

"He's won a Group One in France before so we know he travels well. The Prix de la Foret (Longchamp) is maybe a target later in the season."
