
Weaver hails Calder
Weaver aims to give Blaze stalwart fitting farewell

Last updated: 2nd April 2010  
Competitions

Win some fantastic prizes in the Sky Sports competition section. All our competitions are free to enter.
Weaver hails Calder

Weaver: Hailed Calder
Also see

    * Fixtures/Results
    * Features
    * Video

Coventry Blaze defenceman Jonathan Weaver has hailed stalwart Adam Calder ahead of the Elite League play-offs.

The Canadian forward returned from injury to score back-to-back hat-tricks as Coventry claimed their fourth league title success in seven seasons.

Weaver now wants to lift the play-off trophy in Nottingham this weekend to give Calder - who has been named as the new player-coach of expansion side Braehead Clan, bringing an end to his six-year association with Blaze - the perfect leaving present.

The Blaze take on the Cardiff Devils on Saturday at the Nottingham Ice Centre, with the Nottingham Panthers then taking on the Belfast Giants later in the day in the other play-off semi-final, before the two winners then meet for the silverware on Sunday.

Weaver said: "There is not a lot more to say than has already been said about him [Calder]. He is just a big-time player who turns up for the big games.

"He has a knack of putting the puck in the back of the net and being in the right place at the right time. He has played a massive part for the club.

"I have not won the play-offs since I have been here and that is something we all want to change but Cardiff are a good side and it's going to be a tough game for us."
Remarkable record

By making the play-offs yet again, the Devils have maintained their remarkable record of reaching the last four in every season of the Elite League era.

Devils player-coach Gerad Adams insists his side, runners-up in 2007, are not there to make up the numbers and have set their sights on glory.

He said: "It has been a good year but it could have been a much better year. Obviously the Challenge Cup final loss is still lingering but we are full of confidence and are going to Nottingham to win it.

"In the past Cardiff have probably been happy just to make the semi-finals and not expecting to win it. Now we expect to win it."