
Deadman costs D-Generation X
Undertaker distracts Michaels

By James Coyle   Last updated: 2nd March 2010  
Deadman costs D-Generation X

D-Generation X: Title failure
Also see

    * WWE live on Sky
    * Photo galleries
    * WWE video

In what could possibly be described as their last match together, D-Generation X looked to regain the Unified Tag Team Championships by invoking their rematch clause on the latest edition of RAW.

Triple H and Shawn Michaels reunited as DX in a bid to regain the gold and looked to be holding their own against current unified champions Big Show & The Miz.

However, The Undertaker would prove to be the death of their momentum. When The Deadman appeared on the arena's big screen, Michaels became distracted, so much so that it led to The Showstopper being pinned.

An enraged Michaels then stormed off, leaving his partner behind. It was then that The Game was maliciously attacked by former WWE champion Sheamus.

The Irishman clotheslined Triple H out of the ring, and struck with a vicious kick to the head. Sheamus then executed another devastating kick, sending The Cerebral Assassin flying over the announcer's table at ringside.

After suffering a broken leg in a car accident just two weeks ago on RAW, WWE Hall of Famer Bret Hart was invited back to RAW by Mr McMahon to give a final farewell speech to the WWE fans.

But The Chairman had other ideas. Instead, he provoked his long-time bitter rival, hoping to get an injured Hart to agree to a match at WrestleMania.

With four weeks remaining to recover from his leg injury, The "Hit Man" decided to accept Mr McMahon's challenge. A speedy recovery is necessary if The "Hit Man" is to wrestle a match that has been 12 years in the making.

Wrestling fans around the world will be excited as one of the most talked about rivalries in wrestling history looks set to come to a head at WrestleMania.
Attacked

In preparation, McMahon announced that he will wrestle John Cena next Monday Night on RAW.

Two of the biggest WWE Superstars confronted one another ahead of their WWE title match at WrestleMania. After suffering a low blow last Monday from WWE champion Batista, John Cena called out The Animal.

Batista answered the call, but showed up with a number of security officials in toe. Batista confronted his WrestleMania rival, telling him that the security was to ensure he doesn't pummel Cena like he did the week before.

The two rivals then proceeded to have a war of words before The Animal told Cena that he attacked him because he feels cheated, as it is Cena who has become the face of WWE.

A fiery Batista then claimed that he will rectify that on The Grandest Stage of Them All, WrestleMania.

Also this week on RAW, Jack Swagger and MVP confirmed their spots at WrestleMania, defeating Santino Marella and Zack Ryder respectively to earn their place in the annual Money in the Bank Ladder Match.

This Thursday evening, do not miss Ted DiBiase Senior and Junior LIVE on Sky Sports News from 6.30pm.

Next week, American magician, illusionist and stunt performer Criss Angel is scheduled to host RAW from Portland, Oregon.

Do not miss what is set to be another exciting episode of RAW on the road to WrestleMania. Tune in LIVE and exclusively next Monday Night from 2am on Sky Sports 3.