
His Tim has come
Expect a week of big hitting in Texas, says Mark

Mark Roe Posted 12th May 2010 view comments

I must admit I was surprised to see Tim Clark win the Players Championship.

Earlier this season, Clark was in contention for victory at the Bob Hope Classic and was in a position to make an eagle on the 18th hole. Instead he chose to lay up and ended up finishing runner-up to Bill Haas.
Clark: holding a trophy at last

Clark: holding a trophy at last

That moment cemented in my mind the feeling that Clark was never going to triumph after so many years of earning millions, but not lifting trophies.

So the quality of his performance last weekend surpsied me. Although Sawgrass is a great shot-makers golf course and requires tremendous accuracy, he finished the job off like somebody who has won 50 PGA Tour titles.

    Tiger could do much worse than go back and work with Butch Harmon once again. Many people in the game are of that opinion and it could prove to be a step forward for Woods.

Mark Roe
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
Open Cala Millor Mallorca
10.30amam, Thu, Sky Sports HD1
Valero Texas Open
8pm, Thu, Sky Sports HD3
Watch online with Sky Player
How to remote record

His short game has always held him back from being a multiple winner. Everyone can see he's a great ball-striker, but around the greens he is not strong.

But he played beautifully from tee to green at the Players Championship and you have to take your hat off to him for winning his maiden tour title at a championship which is considered by many to be a cut above every other on the PGA Tour.

I don't agree with the idea that it's the fifth major, but it is a quality championship with a strong field.
Assisted

There's no doubt Clark was assisted a little by Lee Westwood's struggles on the final day.

By his own admission, Lee was not playing at the top of his game over the weekend and once again he was unable to finish the job off after a solid start.

Not many players win more than once or twice in a season, but Lee is often in contention and his chance will come again.

People will draw comparisons with his final round at the Masters, but I'm not worried about him. He didn't implode in the final round of the Dubai World Championship a few months ago when he played flawlessly to win both that title and the Race to Dubai.

Yes, Lee made some mistakes last weekend. His long game wasn't as good as it usually is and his short game wasn't sharp either. That combination meant he didn't get the job done last Sunday, but he's a very open and honest player and he knows where he went wrong.

Winning is difficult to do and if you're in contention on 20 ocasions, even the very best players will only win three or four of them.

Indication

We didn't see much of Tiger Woods at Sawgrass as, once again, he wasn't in contention.

That's a clear indication that his mind is not on the game. You can't play golf when your mental energy is taken up elsewhere and we won't see him back as the great player that he is until he finds some harmony in his private life.

Furthermore he's not swinging well. The news broke this week that Hank Haney has resigned as his coach. Evidently, there are more changes for Tiger to deal with behind the scenes and he's realising that life isn't always plain sailing.

Butch Harmon said this week he needs to keep his appearances to a minimum, but the problem with that is he won't find his game. We're seeing signs that this is going to be a difficult year for him.

And by the way, Tiger could do much worse than go back and work with Butch Harmon once again. Many people in the game are of that opinion and it could prove to be a step forward for Woods.

New course

This week Sky Sports brings you the Valero Texas Open; one of the oldest events on the PGA Tour, dating back to 1922. This year it takes place on a new course: the AT&T Oaks Course at TPC San Antonio.

Designed by Greg Norman and Pete Dye with some input from Sergio Garcia, it looks like a great course. At 7,500 yards it is certainly long and will suit straight drivers.

All of the par fives are more than 560 yards and all of the par threes are in excess of 200 yards. Plus there's massive bunkers, so it's going to be a ball-strikers challenge.

A decent field, including Vijay Singh and Ernie Els will be in attendance and I can't wait to see if Ernie can pick up his hat-trick of wins for 2010.

I mentioned earlier how difficult it is to win multiple times, but he's already picked up a couple of wins and is getting close to his very best.

It's difficult to pick a winner when you haven't seen the course before, but this course is likely to suit the attributes of Ernie.

The players will not have familiarity this week; it's always nice to return to a course on a regular basis. But it's equally great to see a new design and anything that Pete Dye is involved in is likely to have some fun holes.

It should be an interesting week.