
Coventry capture Zanon
Blaze bag highly-rated blueliner

Last updated: 29th April 2010  
Competitions

Win some fantastic prizes in the Sky Sports competition section. All our competitions are free to enter.
Coventry capture Zanon

Thompson: First off-season signing

    He's big, strong, tough and a real no-nonsense style of player which is exactly what I believe this team benefits from. 

Paul Thompson
Quotes of the week

Coventry Blaze head coach Paul Thompson has completed the signing of Canadian defenceman Brad Zanon from the Florida Everblades.

The East Coast Hockey League recruit is the first new face signed by Thompson as he looks to build a roster to defend the club's Elite League Champions crown next season.

The 6ft 2in blueliner hails from Port Moody in British Columbia and caught the eye during his time at the University of British Columbia between 2004 and 2008, where he racked up 84 points and 324 penalty minutes.

Zanon joins the Blaze on the back of a 14 point, 139 penalty minute, 77 game season with the Everblades.

"Where ever he's played, junior, university or pro, Brad's had a reputation of giving nothing less than one hundred percent effort every night and has been noted for his physical play all over the ice," said Thompson of his latest capture.

"He's big, strong, tough and a real no-nonsense style of player which is exactly what I believe this team benefits from.
Excellent

"In the last couple of years, he's been used very much as a defensive defenseman, great at blocking shots, throwing big hits, strong on the penalty kill and generally doing whatever it takes to keep the puck out of the net.

"But if you look back just a couple of seasons to his University career, he is definitely a player who has an eye for goal and has good offensive upside.

"He was the first defenceman in the history of the University of British Columbia to lead his team in goal scoring for a season which says a lot about the tools he has in his kit bag."

Zanon, who has just turned 27, will be taking advantage of the club's excellent links with Coventry University and will combine his playing duties with a further education course.

"The opportunity to attend a world class university was a big attraction for me," said Zanon.

"It's a huge opportunity for a professional hockey player like myself, to be able to combine playing for a top notch hockey club and at the same time, securing my long term future through getting a first class education.

"All of that made coming to Coventry a really easy decision for me. If you speak to other players, you hear nothing but good things about the club and I'm looking forward to coming over to help the team be champions again. I can't wait."