
Green hails Capello approach
Hammers goalie fully behind Italian's regime

Last updated: 16th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Green hails Capello approach

Green: Behind Capello

    When you have that level of detail it makes you think 'perhaps I should be doing even more myself' and you push yourself to another level.

Robert Green
Quotes of the week

West Ham goalkeeper Robert Green has hailed England boss Fabio Capello's regime ahead of the World Cup in South Africa this summer.

The 30-year-old has become a regular in a Three Lions shirt since Capello's appointment in 2008 after spending a frustrating five years involved with England but seeing little action on the pitch.

And Green, who has played eight times for England under Capello, starting five consecutive matches, believes the Italian manager's no-nonsense approach has helped turn the national squad around.
Approach

"Everybody's in the same position and, if you do something wrong, you will get

told no matter who you are," Green told The Telegraph.

"That's something else that is new. It is a real leveller. In previous squads there were people who, for want of a better word, were untouchable.

"Now everyone is treated the same and if you train well you will play. It sounds basic but it's the implementation of it that makes the difference.

"He doesn't just talk about it, he does it. You know where you are. Very clear, very well-defined and you are in no doubt about it. As I say, you will get told.

"You are expected to behave in a certain manner, come across in a certain manner and all of a sudden you feel yourself doing it without having to think about it."

Green, who has been selected as one of three goalkeepers in the provisional 30-man England World Cup squad along with David James and Joe Hart, believes the meticulous nature of Capello's regime has a motivational effect on the whole side.

"When you have that level of detail it makes you think 'perhaps I should be doing even more myself' and you push yourself to another level," he added.

The goalkeeper, who will travel to Austria on Monday for England's pre-World Cup training camp, believes Capello's arrival brought some much needed relief to the national squad following their failure to qualify for Euro 2008.

Change

"It was similar to getting beaten 10-0 and then coming in on the Monday and the manager saying 'this is how we are doing it now'. You will have absolutely no comeback," said Green.

"You can't exactly say 'it worked for us before, why are we changing it' because it didn't work. And therefore we are changing it.

"He could say 'this is what we are doing, this is the recipe for success'. He's a very strong person and a strong personality and that comes across in the manner of his coaching, the way he speaks to us and the way he deals with you [media] guys."
