
Robbo on top of the world
Australian points to brilliant comeback as Crucible catalyst

Last updated: 4th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Interactive Frame
Robbo on top of the world

Robertson: World champion

    It was incredible to come from 11-5 down and to still be in the tournament. I think that was definitely the key to winning it. I knew if I could overcome that I could overcome anything.

Neil Robertson
Quotes of the week
Also see

    * Snooker Schedule
    * World Rankings
    * Snooker DVDs
    * £5 Free Bet

New world snooker champion Neil Robertson hailed his 'incredible' Crucible victory, and pointed to his remarkable second round comeback against Martin Gould as the springboard for his Crucible success.

Robertson became the first champion from outside the British Isles since Canada's Cliff Thorburn in 1980, and the first from Australia, after his gruelling 18-13 victory over Graeme Dott.

A marathon match ended well after midnight and despite the cagey nature of the final, Robertson was nevertheless delighted to have captured snooker's showpiece.

It could have been a different story for Robertson though had he not engineered a brilliant comeback against Martin Gould to go through 13-12 after trailing 11-5.

"It's absolutely incredible," said Robertson. "I seriously can't believe it because in my last-16 match I was 11-5 down to Martin Gould.
Checked out

"I checked out of my apartment and I was just thinking, 'Okay, last 16, whatever, I've blown my chances of a top-four finish'. But now, a week and a half later, I'm a world champion. It's absolutely amazing.

"It was incredible to come from 11-5 down and to still be in the tournament. I think that was definitely the key to winning it. I knew if I could overcome that I could overcome anything."

Robertson celebrated with his mother Alison after her dash from Down Under, which made it an extra special occasion for the man who gave up his education to travel from the other side of the world to make it in snooker.

"After my match against Ali Carter I was really disappointed I couldn't have any family coming over for the final with Australia being 24 hours flight away," Robertson added.

"Then I got a voicemail from my mum saying she'd organised it when I was 15-9 in front against Ali, she jumped on a plane so it was lucky that I finished the job off.

"It just makes this memory absolutely perfect.

Making it

"I had three goes at (Making it in snooker) really and I didn't do any good and there's no way in the world any of the guys who beat me would have thought I could do what I've done.

"But I just kept persisting with it. I came over to Cambridge with £500 in my pocket and had to borrow a waistcoat off another Australian player as I couldn't afford to buy one. I could probably buy a few more now I guess."

The last Australian World Championship finalist was the late Eddie Charlton in 1975 - when the event was staged at his club in Melbourne - and Robertson hopes he has inspired his countrymen to follow in his footsteps.

"If this doesn't do anything then I won't call myself Australian anymore," he joked.

"Obviously Australians love world champions and Olympic champions and that and it would have been a big blow if I'd lost in the final. I had all those sorts of pressures to deal with as well so hopefully this can start something special."

Gracious Dott

Dott was gracious in defeat, admitting he had been thoroughly outplayed by Robertson, but it was still a remarkable achievement after he had fought back from the depths of depression, after several tragedies in his private life.

He said: "Neil thoroughly deserved to beat me. He was by far and away the better player than me. How I managed to get 13 frames I really don't know.

"I've played really well. Obviously I'm disappointed to lose in the final and not really perform.

"But I needed to get to the semi-finals to get back into the top 16 so I've managed to do that and I've played really well so hopefully I'll be back for next year."