
Serena out in Madrid
World number one loses in three sets as sister Venus advances to third round

Last updated: 12th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Serena out in Madrid

Williams: Knocked out in third round
Also see

    * Tennis Results
    * WTA Schedule
    * Tennis on Sky
    * Messageboards

Serena Williams has been knocked out of the Madrid Open by Nadia Petrova, the world number one losing 4-6 6-2 6-3 in their third-round match on Wednesday.

Despite winning the opening set, the American grew increasingly distraught as the match wore on in the face of some relentlessly accurate hitting from the 16th seed.

Williams, who won her 12th grand slam singles title at the Australian Open in January before injury sidelined her for three months, appeared to resigned to her fate well before she finally succumbed on the Russian's first match point.

Sister Venus earlier progressed 3-6 6-1 6-2 in her second-round match against Francesca Schiavone, a result which ensured that she would climb back to number two in the world rankings.

The new list, released on Monday, will therefore confirm that, for the first time since May 2003, the Williams sisters will occupy the top two places.

Speaking about their achievement following her win, Venus laughingly said: "I congratulate her on that ranking but I am aiming to get there myself!"

"Serena and I being number one and two in the world is what we dreamed of growing up, but we've each dreamed of being number one. Neither of us dreamed of being number two."
Struggle

Meanwhile, seventh seed Jelena Jankovic beat Ana Ivanovic 4-6 6-4 6-1 in an all-Serbian match that both agreed was low on quality.

They struggled to hold serve throughout, with Jankovic breaking her compatriot 11 times while also losing her own serve on eight occasions.

Jankovic, the world number four and runner-up in Rome last week, will now play Spaniard Anabel Medina Garrigues for a place in the last eight.

"Overall, I am not really happy with the way that I played but a win is a win," she said.

"I had quite a lot of trouble in the first set and I didn't serve well and I wasn't really feeling the shots.

"I was quite a long way from where I was playing the past few weeks but then I just tried to stay as positive as possible."

Ivanovic, who won the French Open two years ago but who has also struggled since and currently occupies 42nd spot in the rankings, added: "I don't think either of us played so well today.

"It's always hard to play someone from your own country but it was also a bit hard to find a rhythm.

"I think what made the big difference was that she had a high percentage of first serves in, and that made a big difference in the second and third sets."
