
Athletics: Ohuruogu planning ahead
Olympic champion working on technique ahead of title defence

Last updated: 13th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
<b>Athletics:</b> Ohuruogu planning ahead

Ohuruogu: Big plans

    I think the biggest thing an athlete fears is losing and I lost - but I can still go back and hold my head up.

Ohuruogu on her 2009 season.
Quotes of the week

Christine Ohuruogu may be concentrating on her seasonal debut in Doha on Friday but her thoughts are already on London in 2012.

The Briton will defend her Olympic 400m title in the capital city just over two years from now but there is a lot of water to pass under the bridge before then.

Ohuruogu first needs to put a disappointing 2009 season behind her after injury scuppered her preparations for the World Championship, which saw her relinquish her title with a fifth-place finish.

"I think last year it really did screw me up knowing I had lost my title. It really did, I'm not going to lie," said the 25-year-old.

"But to a point it was a relief to know I can lose and the world doesn't collapse, the ground doesn't open up and swallow me and I can still wake up the next day and do my job.

"I think the biggest thing an athlete fears is losing and I lost - but I can still go back and hold my head up.

"I don't want to say last year was a bad year, I think at every given opportunity I worked really hard and tried to make the best of what happened.

"I don't want to make it seem all bad because that's not really how you grow, you don't just say 'it was rubbish' and forget about it."
Kinks

Ohuruogu will return from the IAAF Diamond League opener in Doha to run in a 150m race in the streets of Manchester on Sunday, while the European Championships in Barcelona are the main focus of the summer.

However, London is already on the horizon and 2010 will be all about honing her technique for the next two years.

"This season is about preparing for the next two years," she said. "This season is to iron out kinks so I can have a good run at the World Championships next year, which will lead me well into the Olympics.

"It's the last season we have to mess around with things, see how many races I can get under my legs before I start getting tired, seeing how long we can make the season, so when the World Championships comes next year it'll be like a dry run for the Olympics the year after.

"I'm going to take a lighter approach to the year. The next two years are going to be a lot harder with the worlds, and the Olympics that are going to descend on London, and those are going to be probably the most stressful situations that British athletes have ever been in. There's a lot of pressure on us to produce.

"I think we're going feel the heat, for our own personal reasons I think everyone's going to find that they might need help in coping.

"We're all pretty much in the same boat, all of us will have pressure on us to perform."
