
Murray staying positive
British number one in positive mood after Madrid display

Last updated: 15th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Murray staying positive

Murray: Staying positive

    There were a lot of rallies, I had my chances, he had his. He's played a lot of matches on the clay this year so maybe it's normal that he might have played a bit better, but it's been a positive week.

Andy Murray after Ferrer loss
Quotes of the week
Also see

    * Results
    * ATP Schedule
    * Tennis on Sky
    * Messageboards
    * £5 Free Bet

Andy Murray insisted he was taking a lot of positives from the Madrid Open despite a quarter-final loss to David Ferrer.

The British number one enjoyed back-to-back victories over Juan Ignacio Chela and Victor Hanescu during the week, before producing another good performance in his loss to clay court specialist Ferrer.

The world number four had lost five of his 10 matches since reaching the Australian Open final at the start of the year, but felt he had found some form despite going down 7-5 6-3 to in-form Spaniard Ferrer.

Fighting it out for over two hours on the clay will stand Murray in good stead ahead of the French Open, and he was keen to take positives from his week in the Spanish capital.

"It's been very good. The first two matches were obviously great to win, sometimes you lose matches where you play well," Murray said.
Close

"Tonight's match was not one I was necessarily expected to win, but over two hours for a 7-5 6-3 match kind of suggests that it was very close.

"There were a lot of rallies, I had my chances, he had his. He's played a lot of matches on the clay this year so maybe it's normal that he might have played a bit better, but it's been a positive week.

"I'm obviously very disappointed to lose, I would've liked to have got to the semis here but it was not to be.

"I'm very disappointed to have lost, not because I didn't give everything out there on the court, but simply because I lost. If you give everything and lose, it's tough, but I lost to a better player and that's nothing to be ashamed of."

Murray, who turns 23 on Saturday, also felt he lacked a bit of luck during his defeat to ninth seed Ferrer, who came into the match with the most wins on the ATP tour this year with 32.

Out of luck

"I thought there was some very good tennis in there. There were a lot of very close games, a lot of long games. I just didn't manage to win them," added Murray.

"I don't say it very often but I think I was a little unlucky tonight.

"I haven't broken a string in a match for a long time but I broke two tonight and both when it was big points on his serve. I thought I played a very good match, got a bit unlucky at certain points, but it was definitely the best standard of match I've played on clay so far (this year)."

Ferrer, who had beaten eighth seed Marin Cilic in the previous round, will now face world number one Roger Federer for a place in the final.

"It was a really hard match," he said. "There was a really fast pace and lots of long rallies, we both ended up really worn out. It was a great match.

"I think this is the best clay season I've had in my career. I've been winning many matches and it's given me a lot of confidence looking towards the match against Federer."
