
Badminton: London to host
Wembley Arena handed World Championships for 2011

By Rachel Griffiths   Last updated: 19th April 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
<b>Badminton:</b> London to host

Heather Olver and Clark

    Badminton England will do all that is possible to make the first BWF World Championships in London a truly wonderful experience for all concerned.

Adrian Christy
Quotes of the week

London will host the 2011 Badminton World Championships as the world's leading players continue the countdown to the 2012 Olympic Games.

The championships will be staged at Wembley Arena from August 8-14 by Badminton England after they were awarded the rights by the Badminton World Federation.

"The BWF is delighted to have on board such an enthusiastic and committed partner in Badminton England to ensure the success of the 2011 World Championships," said BWF chief operating officer Thomas Lund.

"Badminton England has, over the years, established the All England Championships as one of the best-organised badminton tournaments in the BWF calendar and the BWF is confident that Badminton England will continue to do a wonderful job in hosting the World Championships."
Excited

Badminton England chief executive Adrian Christy added: "We are delighted and very excited to be hosting the World Championships in London, and to do so one year out from the Olympic Games makes it even more special.

"Badminton England is extremely proud to welcome the badminton world to our capital city and plans are already in development to ensure that we stage one of the best, if not the best, World Championships to date in the summer of 2011.

"I would like to assure the BWF and the players that Badminton England will do all that is possible to make the first BWF World Championships in London a truly wonderful experience for all concerned.

"I would also like reiterate our appreciation to the BWF for their confidence in Badminton England to host the World Championships."

British badminton hit a low point last week as all the nation's players dropped out of the European Championships in Manchester at the semi-final stage or before.

The host nation was forced to settle for three bronze medals, but Badminton England performance director Ian Moss insists this was largely due to veteran player Anthony Clark pulling out through injury.

Target

"At the start of the week I would have expected a final but what I have seen is a closing of the gap," said Moss.

"We got three medals when our target was four but sidelining Nathan (Robertson) and Anthony, quite frankly, takes away your best chance. We have to understand that."

Moss remains confident the nation can deliver modest success at the 2012 Games, adding: "Our Olympic medal target is zero to one - we are going to keep pushing for that one medal at least."