
Weeping Willows
Salford to feel the full force of Saints

Stevo Posted 14th May 2010 view comments

The big question is what can Salford offer? They just don't seem to have the depth and are really struggling.

They are a good hard working side and they have showed that they can do it - it was a good win against Hull - but they don't seem to be able to do it week in and week out.

They seem to have to build up over two or three weeks to put in a really good effort. Shaun McRae will know that they will have to put in a very good effort against this St Helens outfit. He knows his players will be up for this especially Steve Tyrer who was a Saints academy man.
Pryce: impressive displays for Saints

Pryce: impressive displays for Saints

But Saints are on fire at the moment and I just don't know what Salford are going to do to slow them down let alone stop them. Their forwards are in rampaging form and creating a lot of space so it is no wonder that the likes of Kyle Eastmond and Leon Pryce are having the time of their lives.

It is great to see Pryce back to his best too. I think he must have had a little think to himself and said that perhaps he is not finished at international level and wouldn't mind another trip down to New Zealand and Australia. There is only one way that is going to happen and that is by playing well enough to get selected - and Pryce is certainly doing that! New England coach Steve McNamara is going to be brave to leave him out.

    They are a good hard working side and they have showed that they can do it - it was a good win against Hull - but they don't seem to be able to do it week in and week out.

Stevo
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
Salford v St Helens
6pm, Sat, Sky Sports HD2, Sky Sports 2
Online with Sky Player
Click here to remote record

I have said it all about Keiron Cunningham and James Roby but they keep on making the same impact week in and week out. Roby struggled to get back to his form of two years ago and had an in and out season last year. But he is firing on all cylinders and maybe needed a season or so to shrug off his injury.

The combination between the two of them is just superb and does not give the opposition any let off whatsoever.

I know Mick Potter has made a decision to leave - will that affect them? If they win then no, if they lose then it has. Potter will definitely want to win something before he leaves St Helens. No coach has failed to win a trophy of some sorts at St Helens so he will be determined to make his mark too.

Let's not forget that it looks like Cunningham's last year too and he will want to end his career the same way another famous hooker did. James Lowes steered Bradford to a Grand Final win and then threw away his boots. Actually he didn't throw them away he donated them to my rugby league museum. I guess this is a polite way of saying 'Keiron, when you finally hang your boots up, may I have them for my museum?'
Star man

Take tour pick! I have spoken about a few already but then you look at Tony Puletua, James Graham , Matt Gidley...the list goes on. Pick a number and that will be a star man in this game.

Stevo Says

I fear for Salford, I really do. I can't see Saints holding back at all. Salford will be brave and play with a lot of heart but I can't see them pulling off a shock win here.