
Crouching Tiger
Injury lay-off could be a blessing for Woods

Ewen Murray Posted 12th May 2010 view comments

I don't know about you, but I've had enough of this ash. Mind you, having been in Florida for a week, if you had given me the choice of ash and the election propaganda you have had to endure, I might opt for the ash!

After a seven-hour delay, I trundled home to the South Downs on Tuesday evening after a wonderful Players Championship at Sawgrass. I'm sure you enjoyed the extensive coverage on Sky Sports from a course purpose built for that event and a course that guarantees drama and excitement.
Tiger woods could be sidelined for up to eight weeks with a neck injury

Tiger woods could be sidelined for up to eight weeks with a neck injury

After more than 220 tournaments without a PGA Tour victory, Tim Clark's time finally came. His 66, and 67 at the weekend was superb by anyone's standards and the Players had a worthy champion.

I'm sure many of you relaxed in your living rooms on Sunday evening urging Lee Westwood to victory, but sadly it was not to be. Nevertheless, it was another competent performance from the Englishman and confirmation that he will unlock the secret sooner rather than later.

    There are two basic fundamental flaws in the Woods swing of today and all of the blame should not go on Haney's shoulders. Tiger has enough knowledge of the golf swing to have spotted them and put a halt to them quickly.

Ewen Murray
Quotes of the week

I spoke to Lee on Sunday evening and honest as ever, he said: "I simply didn't play well enough the last two rounds. My driving wasn't up to its normal standard and when you are playing from Bermuda rough onto hard, firm greens you are always going to struggle."

How refreshing that a player tells it exactly as it is. The American press laid into Westwood for failing to land the title, but the fact Westwood was still in there with two holes to go reflects just how far he has come in the last couple of years. A third place on Sunday and he would have risen to a career high of third in the world rankings.

A safe tee shot at 17 would have guaranteed his elevation. But one of the things I admire about Lee is that he's only interested in winning, and the whole nation will hope that a major comes his way in the near future. He has no need to change anything, just continue what he is doing and if he finds a good short game week at Pebble Beach, his time may arrive on America's West coast.
Tiger's game in freefall

As you can imagine, America's Sunday evening news was dominated by the separation of Tiger Woods and his swing coach of six years, Hank Haney. If reports are 100 per cent accurate, this was Haney's decision. My own opinion is that it's not before time. Woods has been the shadow of the golfer we knew just after the turn of the century and during the last two years his game has been in freefall, much of that you could argue has been down to his activities off the course.

When Hank joined forces with Woods in March of 2004, Tiger was quoted as saying he "wanted to own his swing and have as little maintenance as possible". That quite clearly has not transpired and his swing can only be classed as well below average.

Haney is a fine coach and at his four facilities in Texas and his school in Sea Island, Georgia, he has helped many golfers to enjoy their hobby and improve their skills. Teaching someone of Tigers talent is a completely different proposition. It should be pointed out here that under Haney, Woods won 37 of his 71 PGA Tour wins, more than his former coach, Butch Harmon. Had he continued with Harmon's teachings you can only wonder how many titles Woods would have won. We will never know the answer to that. One question lingers here. Why did he split with Butch?

Whereas the record under Haney is impressive, the statistics are not. Only once in six years of Haney has Woods finished inside the top 100 in driving accuracy - a lowly 86th position last year. Last week, the 2005 Players champion Fred Funk was in the field. Fred was the perennial short driver throughout his career, but another name was at the bottom of the driving distance category last week - Tiger Woods.

Flaws

It is generally accepted across the world that the golf Woods played in 2000 was the finest ever seen in the history of the sport; so what has changed in Wood's swing? Some would say little and that it is his social antics that are holding him back. His swing now however, compared with 2000, is night and day.

Haney is a disciple of Hogan who many down the years thought of as close to perfection. Without getting too deeply into that, Hogan was 5ft 9in, so his movements would be far removed from what Woods should have been striving for.

There are two basic fundamental flaws in the Woods swing of today and all of the blame should not go on Haney's shoulders. Tiger has enough knowledge of the golf swing to have spotted them and put a halt to them quickly.

If you look at Tiger at Pebble Beach in 2000 when he was at the peak of his powers, his thumbs were underneath the shaft at the top of the backswing supporting this position. Because of the "Hogan, Haney" belief in flatness, shallowness, whatever you want to call it, the thumbs of Woods are now on the side of the shaft. For a tall, strong athlete, that's dangerous. The swing plane is way below his natural plane.

It's generally accepted that if you have the correct posture which should give you a natural swing plane, a 90 degree turn of the shoulders will put the club down the target line. Any increase in turn would send the club across the line. As fit as Woods is, he can turn through 120 degrees, but when he does that the club - if anything - is actually, "laid off" i.e. pointing left. That is not rocket science, it's plane and simple physics and a basic fundamental.

Overreact

For some time now Woods has been in between a block to the right and a hook to the left. Both of these shots are related and come from the club being too far behind the body. If the hands are quiet it's a block, and having had that, it's normal to overreact and flash the hands through impact.

This has been going on for some time and I'm sure many remember his opening 5-wood in the Ryder Cup of 2006 at the K Club wildly hooked into the lake. There have been others like his tee shot at the first in the last two Masters, and his opening tee shot at Bethpage Black in last year's US Open. That shot was 105 yards away from where he was aiming.

The one thing that strikes me here is that Hogan fought a hook all of his life. At 5ft 9in, he cured that by getting more loft on the clubface. At his height, there was never any chance of steepening the swing plane. At Tiger's height, there should never have been any moves to flatten his. Right now I see a 6ft 2in athlete with a swing of a man at least five inches shorter than him.

So who will be the next Woods swing coach? The rumours when I left America were that it will be Sean Foley, who looks after the games of Sean O'Hair, Hunter Mahan and our own Justin Rose. Tiger played with Mahan and O'Hair during practice last week at Sawgrass, so the smart guess is Foley.

Forlorn

The least important thing in Tiger's life right now is the state of his swing. I suspect even with his technique of 2000, he would still struggle to post low scores. Quite simply his life is in such a mess it's hard to know where to turn. In the locker room on Sunday following his withdrawal through a bulging disc in his neck, he cut a forlorn figure and looked like he had had as much as he could take both physically and mentally.

One of my close friends is Antoni Jacabowski, one of the worlds leading chiropractors. Antoni informed me that Tiger's injury is fairly common among golfers, but even more common with people at times of stress. The injury may sideline Woods for up to eight weeks and in some ways that may be a blessing.

Some of you didn't agree with me when I said I felt sorry for Tiger, but think of what he faced on Sunday night. A crumbling golf game and business empire, but worse than that, turning the key of his Isleworth residence to find no wife, no children, a house but no home. No real friends, just emptiness and loneliness. I know he did wrong, but no human being could surely wish that on any other person.

Tiger Woods needs to find a life coach and get his world back on track. He needs to find a swing coach that rather than be interested in financial gain and fame is prepared to stay out of the limelight and is only interested in getting Tiger back playing well. He needs to identify people of that nature and trust them to be his friends. I'm not being dramatic, but he really does need to find them, before it's too late.