
Manifest enters Cup picture
Royal Ascot beckons for impressive York winner

Last updated: 14th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Manifest enters Cup picture

Manifest: Impressive
Also see

    * Racecards service
    * Results service
    * £5 Free Bet

Henry Cecil's Manifest confirmed himself a stayer with a future when landing the Emirates Airline Yorkshire Cup with consumate ease.

Sent off the 13/8 favourite in a reduced field of five, the four-year-old left his opponents for dead after hitting top stride, pulling eight lengths clear at the line.

Godolphin's Wajir had briefly looked menacing but Tom Queally had matters well in hand on the son of Rainbow Quest, who is now one of the front runners for next month's Ascot Gold Cup.

Veteran stayer Purple Moon ran on to take second place with daylight back to Wajir.
Breeding

"I love Cup horses and he could just make into a nice one," said the winning trainer. "He does everything right and he could do with a bit more give in the ground.

"On his breeding this ground is faster than he would want. It looks as if he stays and he could stay in the Gold Cup at Royal Ascot.

"It's entirely up to the Prince (Khalid Abdullah, owner) if he would like to run him or not.

"I love Cup horses and it would be lovely to have another one. We'll see what he says."

Queally was impressed with the colt, adding: "He did it very well. He ran a hell of a race in the John Porter and Harbinger has gone on to frank the form. I'm delighted with the performance.

"All our horses have improved between 5lb and 7lb for a run. He's no different and no exception to the rule.

"I think he stays quite well, he certainly wasn't stopping there.

"He just takes a little bit of time to go up through the gears. Once he reaches that top gear he is something to be reckoned with."

Further

Luca Cumani said of Purple Moon: "I'm very pleased and he's shown that he now settles well in his races.

"Now he's a bit older he wants to stay a little bit further and will head for the Ascot Gold Cup."

Cecil and Queally went on to complete a double thanks to the success of Chachamaidee in the sportingbet.com Fillies Stakes.

The daughter of Footstepsinthesand was sent of the 5/1 outsider in the five-runner Listed contest and was settled in the rear as Kieren Fallon set a fast pace on Carioca.

The former champion jockey appeared to have stolen it from the front on Marco Botti's charge but Queally got a great run from Cecil's filly to sneak up the rail and cross the line threequarters of a length to the good.

Squeezed

"She ran here last year and was very keen going down, but today with a winter under her belt she's completely turned the corner," reported the winning jockey.

"She never picked the bit up going to post and it was just a matter of getting her settled in the early part of the race. She's still got her turn of foot from last year and that counted at the end.

"She dug deep, I put my stick down and just squeezed her. She ought to improve a little bit for the run.

"Mentally she's going the right way and that's a bonus."
