
True to form
Can Bath avoid Leicester's stranglehold?

Miles Harrison Posted 14th May 2010 view comments

Will Bath's superb run of form over the second half of the season end at Welford Roadd on Sunday? One league defeat in five months sees them head into the semi-finals as the form side of the competition.

However their solitary loss since Christmas was inflicted by reigning champions Leicester, who will be even more determined than ever after their home defeat to Saracens last weekend.

Bath's trip to Leicester will be the first live club match to be screened by Sky Sports in 3D and Miles Harrison is expecting the Guinness Premiership's biggest rivals to deliver on all fronts.
Abendanon: growing in maturity

Abendanon: growing in maturity

Leicester must be favourites for this game Miles, but what effect will their home loss to Saracens have on them?

MILES REPLIES: Yes, of course, Leicester must be favourites for this game - they did not finish top of the league for nothing. And, actually, that defeat to Saracens will probably only serve to heighten the Tigers' resolve to make it to another Final. They do not like losing at home, especially two weeks on the trot! So, Bath know what is coming - yet, they also know what Saracens achieved in Leicester last week. It was a result that proved Leicester are not invincible and it is important that Bath retain that thought in the run-up to this weekend's semi-final alongside their need to play in manner that is true to their attacking beliefs.
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
Northampton v Saracens
12.30pm, Sun, Sky Sports HD2
Leicester v Bath
3.00pm, Sun, Sky Sports HD2
AND LIVE IN SKY 3D!
Click here to find your nearest 3D pub

If the Heineken Cup semis showed us anything it was the importance of being dominant upfront. No matter how talented your backs are, if your forwards cannot at least claim parity it is going to be a tough ride. We know Bath have the skill factor but can they compete with Leicester at the set-pieces and at the breakdown?

MILES REPLIES: You are correct and you hit on the nub of this match. Leicester have great skills at the breakdown and this ability to impose the pace of the game. And, at the set-piece, Bath also failed to deliver in their recent loss at Welford Road when Leicester put them away in convincing fashion. It is right to say that Bath must play as they have been playing to win this match - that is they must be true to their attacking principles with ball in hand - but will Leicester give Bath that chance? Will Bath get enough decent possession to pose that threat? Yes, they are the key questions this weekend.

And does the fact that Lewis Moody will be moving to Bath make it even more interesting?

MILES REPLIES: Absolutely - this is a fascinating sub-plot. Sam Vesty too is going to the Rec but it is the Moody move that made us sit up and take note because of how central he has been to the Leicester club for so long now. There has been very little traffic between the two sides over the years and for obvious reasons. Moody has well and truly broken that mould but for now he is a Leicester player and there will not be another thought in his head this weekend - I think we all know that much. But, Bath will be striving to make him a Bath player come Sunday night!

Are there any players here who you think were unlucky to miss out for England and who would want to prove a point?

MILES REPLIES: I suppose top of the list in this match would be Bath's in form full-back, Nick Abendanon. He is showing a growing maturity to his game and this is making him a more reliable performer without sacrificing the exciting element that has always been there. But, of course, England had to reward Ben Foden with a chance to cement his international place following his exploits in Paris. On current form Delon Armitage might well have been pushed aside but he has proved himself before as a man who can more than look after himself in international rugby, if not during this season. The England coaches clearly feel that Armitage deserves the chance to show if he can cope in the Southern Hemisphere and whether or not he can recapture his form in what will be a testing environment. There is also a certain amount of selection loyalty going on here and, again, there will be many who concur with that approach too. But, perhaps the really unlucky ones are all in the other semi-final in Northampton. I'm thinking of Jon Clarke, Phil Dowson, Brad Barritt, Andy Saull and, in the full-back role, Alex Goode. Although, it seems that Goode's long-term future is at ten.

A quick mention of that other semi-final Miles, Can Saracens beat Northampton again at Franklin's gardens in such a pressure match?

MILES REPLIES: Yes they can because they just have and they have also recorded that win at Leicester. Saracens are flying and this match could go either way.

Can Bath beat Leicester at Welford Road?

MILES REPLIES: Again it is yes. If Bath get it right, like they did against Wasps at Twickenham, they could be too hot to handle too. So, we have two semi-finals with genuine chances for all four teams. If you had to back the favourites for the Final, then Leicester versus Northampton would probably still come out on top as the most likely outcome but I am really not too sure any more and it should be a fantastic day of rugby as we find out who has the skills and mental strength to make it to Twickenham.