
Hert-break for Storm
Mavericks to face TeamBath in Grand Final

Last updated: 9th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Competitions

Win some fantastic prizes in the Sky Sports competition section. All our competitions are free to enter.
Hert-break for Storm

Tamsin Greenway: 10 of 14

    It was a really good game tonight, but I think Mavericks always do it the hard way. It's not a plan, definitely not a plan, but what works for us works for us. If we come out with the win I don't think we're that fussed about how we've done it.

Louisa Brownfield
Quotes of the week
Co-operative Netball Superleague Grand Final
Sat May 15, Nottingham (4.50pm)
Live on Sky Sports 4 from 4.30pm

Regular season league leaders Surrey Storm missed out on a place in the Co-operative Superleague Grand Final as Hertforshire Mavericks won the elimination semi-final 52-47.

Mavericks had finished fourth in the regular season, but victory at Surrey Sports Park took them through to a clash against defending champions TeamBath in Nottingham next Saturday.

And after home defeat by Bath in the qualification semi-final last week, Storm missed out on the Grand Final despite topping the league standings.

Storm skipper Tamsin Greenway got the scoring underway and that was followed by a Mavericks miss at the other end to take the hosts 2-0 up - and they kept that two-goal gap for almost the entire match.

Mavericks quickly launched into their trademark fast, flat passes down court towards skipper Louisa Brownfield. Their hosts were struggling with the precision needed to lob goalkeeper Amanda Newton, while giving shooter Rachel Dunn a decent punt at goal.

For fans of the fine art of defending this match was as good as any, with Newton especially impressive in dispossessing her opponent and turning the ball round. When the ball headed towards the Storm circle in anything less than a controlled manner, the former England international was there to halt it with velcro fingertips and gather it safely in.

Rachel Dunn was determined to get to the ball first, so much so in one case that a sprint for the ball off court almost saw the pre-fab TV studio demolished!

First centre was to Mavericks in the second quarter, but an interception from Janet Coulbourne circle-side allowed Storm the chance to extend their lead, which they took.

The players on both sides quickly picked up from where they left off and every pass was hotly contested; the teams may have only been 20 minutes into the match but anyone just starting to watch could have been forgiven for thinking the clock was counting down.

Everyone was being forced to work hard with the ball to find space and the pass, while Rachel Dunn was still having an off-day by her high-standards. The quarter ebbed and flowed with first the home side, then their visitors edging it.
Clever play

There was some clever play in the third quarter. In one move Natasha Hampshire outwitted the Mavericks defence to find Tamsin Greenway under the post, only to have the wily Mavericks keeper snaffle back the turnover. Storm had blasted out of the break and went another two goals in front, but failed to push home the advantage and it was Mavericks who bagged the quarter win.

And so to the final countdown. Storm were defending their lead and only needed to stay in control and stay goal for goal with the team renowned for upping the ante in knockout competition. But Hertfordshire Mavericks have been there before several times and prevailed; the previous week's game against Thunder the most recent example.

With ten minutes on the clock Mavericks landed two successive goals to pull level with Storm for the first time since the first whistle. This was now high-octane netball.

There was no flinching from Louisa Brownfield, who netted all her shots in the quarter. The visitors then went ahead; Storm were playing catch-up now. With six minutes on the watch they needed a turnover but it was not forthcoming, in fact it went the other way and more precious seconds ticked by.

After such an outstanding season it was difficult to watch Rachel Dunn suffer agonies under the post, as she undershot three attempts to move the team back within one goal - every effort fell short and the hesitancy seemed to briefly infect her shooting partner, as Tamsin Greenway went on to also miss the kind of 'sitter' either usually could land with eyes closed.

That sealed the result as Storm ran out of energy with two and a half minutes to play and Mavericks were able to add three more goals and book a place in the Grand Final with a five-goal win.

"It was a really good game tonight, but I think Mavericks always do it the hard way," said captain Louisa Brownfield, who denied suggestions that a last quarter push is how they choose to grab the win. "It's not a plan, definitely not a plan, but what works for us works for us. If we come out with the win I don't think we're that fussed about how we've done it," she added.

Pressure

"We were dominating for about 55 minutes," admitted Storm coach Mary Beardwood, "And the last five we didn't play too well under pressure, basically."

Hertfordshire Mavericks head coach Maggie Jackson is not the biggest fan of the 'leave it late' tactic. She said "I can honestly say I do not want any more heart attacks on the bench!

"I'm just very very proud of them today, I was proud of them last week and just think that gradually they're coming together more and more."

Shooting stats:

Surrey Storm 47/63 (75%); Rachel Dunn 37/49 (76%), Tamsin Greenway 10/14 (77%)
Hertfordshire Mavericks 52/65 (80%); Louisa Brownfield 36/40 (90%), Ella Clark 16/25 (64%)
