
Paco Boy wins the Lockinge
Third Group One victory for Richard Hannon's star

Last updated: 15th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Paco Boy wins the Lockinge

Paco Boy: fourth last year

    I'm delighted for the horse - he deserved it to show how good he is. He was brilliant, and I virtually won it on the bridle.

Richard Hughes
Quotes of the week
Related links
Also see

    * Racecards service
    * Results service
    * £5 Free Bet

Odds-on favourite Paco Boy showed an impressive turn of foot to claim victory in the totesport.com Lockinge Stakes at Newbury.

Richard Hughes was hugely confident aboard the 8-11 shot and had still barely moved a muscle a furlong and a half out on the Richard Hannon-trained runner.

Ouqba launched a challenge down the far side inside the distance but when Hughes finally asked his mount to quicken, Paco Boy switched gear and powered away.

Ouqba was flying inside the final furlong, and it looked as though Hughes could have left it too late.

The Desert Style horse was a cut above, though, and Hughes just gave him one crack of the whip before pulling away by a comfortable three-quarters of a length.

Lord Shanakill plugged on for third, a further three and a half lengths adrift of the brilliant winner.

Hughes said: "I'm delighted for the horse - he deserved it to show how good he is.

"He was brilliant, and I virtually won it on the bridle. Richard's done a great job getting him back this season as he was a very sore horse last year."

Hannon was thrilled to see his stable star land a third Group One victory.

Paco Boy was also atoning for last year's Lockinge defeat, when he was also sent off as favourite but finished fourth - after which he was found to have competed with an infected foot.
Different

Hannon said: "He's always been one of my all-time favourites. We have had a lot of good horses in the yard but he's different, he's got gears and he quickens.

"He will be a hard horse to forget and I've got pictures of him all over the house.

"He just needs holding up off a good gallop, then he comes good two out and when you ask him, away he goes.

"We will go for the Queen Anne next and then the Sussex Stakes and the Foret later on, but I doubt that you will ever see him running abroad (outside Europe)."
