
A night of extreme

By James Coyle   Last updated: 18th April 2010  
A night of extreme
Also see

    * WWE live on Sky
    * Photo galleries
    * WWE video

WWE Extreme Rules comes to you this Sunday Night from the 1st Mariner Arena, Baltimore at 1am exclusively LIVE on Sky Sports HD1 and 1.

It's the one night of the year WWE goes extreme, and it's already shaping up to be a show that you will not want to miss.
WWE Championship Last Man Standing Match - John Cena vs. Batista

WWE Champion John Cena will face Batista in a Last Man Standing Match for the WWE Championship. Set to be one of the most gruelling matches ever to be contested, the Last Man Standing Match cannot be won by pinfall, submission or disqualification.

In order to secure victory, either man must incapacitate their opponent long enough so they cannot get to their feet to answer the referee's count of ten.

Will The Champ be able to repeat his WrestleMania success and be the Last Man Standing? Or will The Animal re-establish his dominance and put Cena down for the count of ten?

Prediction: John Cena

World Heavyweight Championship Extreme Rules Match - Jack Swagger vs. Randy Orton

Since cashing in the Money in the Bank and becoming World Heavyweight Champion, Jack Swagger has been RKO'd and pinned twice consecutively by Randy Orton.

"The All-American American" will now be looking to avoid a third RKO when he faces The Viper in an Extreme Rules Match.

In a match where anything is legal and what will certainly prove to be Swagger's toughest challenge to date, this bout will surely be brutal and Swagger will certainly be out to prove himself not only to Orton but to the WWE fans.

Prediction: Jack Swagger

Edge vs. Chris Jericho - Steel Cage Match

This Sunday at Extreme Rules, a clear winner will finally be established in the bitter rivalry between two of the biggest Superstars in WWE, as Chris Jericho battles Edge inside a career-threatening Steel Cage.

Since overcoming The Rated-R Superstar at WrestleMania, Jericho's celebration was cut short when his enraged opponent Speared him off the announce desk.

Jack Swagger then shockingly cashed in Money In The Bank just a few days later to take the World Title from Jericho, which has since led to Edge and Jericho demanding a title shot.

Both competed against Jack Swagger in a Triple Threat Match this past Friday on SmackDown, but neither were successful as Swagger went on to record victory.

After this past week's SmackDown, General Manager Theodore Long declared that the issues between two of the most cunning Superstars in WWE history would be finally be settled inside a Steel Cage at Extreme Rules.

Who will prevail inside the dreaded steel structure?

Prediction: Chris Jericho

Triple H vs. Sheamus - Street Fight

Triple H might have defeated Sheamus at WrestleMania last month but this is one feud that has continued and looks set to come to a head at Extreme Rules in a Street Fight.

Knowing the brutality these two men are willing to put each other through, there is no doubt that a Street Fight - where anything goes - is a perfect match to allow both these men to take each other to the limit and beyond.

Will The Game, perhaps with the aid of sledgehammer, decimate The Celtic Warrior? Or will it be the Irishman celebrating victory after defeating The King of Kings?

Prediction: Triple H

Rey Mysterio vs. CM Punk

Rey Mysterio will face CM Punk in a WrestleMania rematch with a twist, as should Punk lose out to the master of the 6-1-9, he will in-fact lose his head of hair!

Mysterio recently accepted Punk's challenge of putting a symbol of his Straight Edge leadership - his hair - on the line. The Biggest Little Man vows to not only take his opponent's hair but also put an end to The Straight Edge Society.

Prediction: CM Punk

WWE Extreme Rules comes your way on the night of Sunday April 25 at 1am LIVE and exclusively on Sky Sports HD1 and 1.

Have your say on WWE Extreme Rules here....