
Number crunching
Sid backs the Machine to reach last four

Sid Waddell Posted 12th May 2010 view comments

We're heading back to Nottingham for the final round of Premier League games, and if it's anything like last year we are going to be in for an absolute belter!

We had one of the greatest nights of darts on Sky at this venue in 2009, where the average of all the players combined was an amazing 98.

The three remaining playoff places alongside Phil Taylor will be decided here, with five players still in the hunt. With a host of possible permutations, this is a statistician's nightmare; Isaac Newton and the world's most advanced computer combined would have trouble figuring it all out.
James Wade needs to repeat the scintillating form he showed in Nottingham last year

James Wade needs to repeat the scintillating form he showed in Nottingham last year

The last time I put in so much statistical research was back in 1962, where I worked as a statistician for the professor of politics at Durham University, and I had to work out the Indian election results!

Anything can happen in the first three games of the night, although things should be much clearer after the opening game, which involves defending champion James Wade. He enjoyed himself at this venue last year, beating Terry Jenkins 8-1 with a 108 average and eight 180s. He could do with repeating that here. It's destiny night for him, as well as four others.

    Since his emergence at the World Championship back at he turn of the year, Simon Whitlock has been the most consistent player in the game. In essence, he is now Phil Taylor's main challenger.

Sid Waddell
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
Premier League Darts
7pm, Thu, Sky Sports HD1
Watch online with Sky Player
How to remote record

Five into three doesn't go, and I think it will be Wade, Whitlock and Baxter joining Taylor at Wembley Arena on May 23.
James Wade v Terry Jenkins

I've already mentioned what Wade did in Nottingham last year, but he was also on fire at Wigan in last weekend's UK Open qualifier. He was 2-1 down against Gary Anderson but then bounced back to win five legs on the trot and produced 100-plus checkouts in the final three.

Last week in Newcastle Wade lost 8-4 to Simon Whitlock, which illustrates the up and down season he's had. But I think he'll be at his instinctive best against Jenkins, who is out of the running.

Wade has got to get the big win here, as he is well behind on legs difference. He's currently on minus four, with Ronnie Baxter closest on minus one; of all the playoff contenders Wade will be hoping that he loses.

Should Baxter draw Wade would need to win by four to make the semi-finals. Or if Mervyn King could record a resounding win over Whitlock, the Machine could leapfrog the Aussie. See, I told you it was confusing!

SID SAYS: Wade to win 8-4, and be on tenterhooks watching Baxter, Whitlock and King in action.

Ronnie Baxter v Raymond van Barneveld

Baxter drew with Adrian Lewis in Newcastle and could only manage a 90 average, while Barney made it back-to-back victories with an 8-5 win over King.

What Baxter has in his favour is a superior tally in legs won against the throw. He is second only to Phil Taylor in that department and it could yet prove the difference between a semi-final place and an early exit.

Barney is only playing for pride now but has regained a bit of momentum. However I can see Baxter sneaking this, although it could be tighter than the 8-4 win he enjoyed over Barney in week seven in Birmingham.

SID SAYS: Baxter to end his five-game winless streak and prevail 8-6.

Simon Whitlock v Mervyn King

This is without doubt the match of the night, and I could see it going to the wire. I mentioned earlier how Wade was on fire over the weekend; well so was Whitlock. He whitewashed Andy Hamilton 6-0 in Wigan to claim his third Players' Championship title inside a month, and he also defeated King 6-4 at the last 32 stage.

Since his emergence at the World Championship back at he turn of the year, other than Phil Taylor, Whitlock has been the most consistent player in the game. In essence, he is now Taylor's main challenger.

Depending on how Wade fared earlier on, a draw might do King. The big negative for him is that he's coming into the game on the back of a defeat, and at the back of his mind he is waiting for the crowd to get at him. No matter what the crowd's mood is, some of King's concentration will be occupied by them.

SID SAYS: Whitlock to claim second spot with an 8-4 win

Phil Taylor v Adrian Lewis

This game will be nothing more than an exhibition game. If Wade draws and King and Baxter lose, Lewis could get in, but he'd have to win 8-0 against the Power. I think we can discount that!

Lewis had an 8-3 win over Barney at Bournemouth in week two, where he was 6-0 up within in nine-and-a-half minutes and hit six 180s, but he's struggled to consistently produce that form since.

This is like the sorcerer and the apprentice, and both will be trying to win 8-0. I can see Adrian playing well in the first half and go in level at the break, only for Taylor to take control in the second half.

SID SAYS: Taylor certainly doesn't have to worry about legs difference; I think he'll win 8-4.

The punchline is this: Sid says the final four will be Taylor, Whitlock, Wade and Baxter... don't miss it!