
Latvala triumphs in NZ
Finn claims third win as rivals come to grief in New Zealand

Last updated: 9th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Latvala triumphs in NZ

Latvala: Dramatic win
Also see

    * Keith Huewen
    * Features
    * Live on Sky Sports
    * Sky Bet

Finland's Jari-Matti Latvala came from behind to snatch a dramatic victory in the closing moments of the Rally of New Zealand on Sunday.

Latvala had begun the day in third spot behind the two Citroen drivers Sebastien Ogier and championship leader Sebastien Loeb.

But the Ford driver took full advantage when his closest rivals came to grief on the gravel roads of the Waikato to win by just 2.4 seconds from Ogier.

The Frenchman's hopes were dashed when he spun his Citroen C4 three corners from the finish, while defending champion Loeb ploughed into a tree while leading with less than three stages to go.

Petter Solberg meanwhile, saw his hopes evaporate when his privately-run Citroen hit a power pole during the final stage.

Both he and co-driver Phil Mills appeared to have remained unharmed by the incident.

The win was Latvala's third World Rally Championship victory following his triumph in last year's Rally of Italy and the Rally of Sweden in 2008.
Mistake

Ogier, who had started with a 5.3s lead over fellow Frenchman Loeb, soon relinquished that advantage when he spun during the first stage of the day.

But, when six-time world rally champion Loeb slid off the road on stage 19, Ogier regained the lead with a slender 5.6s advantage over Latvala and Solberg, who was 16.7s off the pace.

"It was a long right-hander about three kilometres from the end," said Loeb of the mistake that cost him his third Rally NZ title and fourth consecutive win of 2010.

"There was more gravel than I expected and the car started to understeer and I could not stop.

"We have had some very good moments on this rally and some very bad ones. This is one of the bad ones."

Latvala's Ford team-mate Mikko Hirvonen finished fourth behind Ogier and Loeb, while Dani Sordo (+25.8s), who was fastest in the final stage, came in fifth.

Britain's Matthew Wilson (+3min 26s), Henning Solberg (+6min 15.3s) and Jari Ketomaa (+10min 19.9s) completed the top eight.
