
A new covers story
Twenty20 rain rules too rigid at present, says Bob

Bob Willis Posted 4th May 2010 view comments

When Paul Collingwood suggests a Duckworth-Lewis review might be in order and Chris Gayle sympathises with him it's worth taking note!

As events in Guyana proved, this method has always been the best of a bad bunch of solutions when it comes to resolving rain-affected cricket matches and Gayle's support underlines that this isn't just a case of English sour grapes in defeat.
Taking cover: Collingwood reflects as rain contributes to England's defeat in Guyana

Taking cover: Collingwood reflects as rain contributes to England's defeat in Guyana

I was still on the TCCB cricket committee when Messrs Duckworth and Lewis came to give their initial presentation, which was probably the best part of 20 years ago now.

The game has changed so much since then and although there have been periodical updates the system is still far from perfect, most noticeably when it comes to applying it to Twenty20 cricket.

    There will always be people who say that if you take pie and multiply it by the square root of x, then apply a fancy theorem and minus z then you'll find that it all works out.

Bob Willis
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
ICC World Twenty20
Sky Live coverage

There will always be people who say that if you take pie and multiply it by the square root of x, then apply a fancy theorem and minus z then you'll find that it all works out.

But such formulae don't take into consideration the conditions under which respective innings are played, the game-plans of each team based on those conditions at that time not to mention the approach they take during the power-plays.
Discrepancy

While the rain affected both group games in Guyana, we witnessed a right dog's dinner on Sky Sports as Leicestershire entertained Durham at Grace Road in the Clydesdale Bank 40.

The visitors reached 91-2 off 19 overs before rain intervened, initially reducing the game to 37 overs-a-side and then to 26 - Will Smith's side eventually posting 156-4.

Unfortunately, the scorers had last year's software and calculated a revised target of 176 for Leicestershire whereas we had this year's software and, after inputting all of the relevant information, came up with a different number.

The umpires subsequently intervened and said that as Leicestershire thought they were chasing 176, that target should stand.

The point is that there seems to be a fair bit of a discrepancy in the Duckworth-Lewis calculations when power-plays are involved.

Leicestershire batted abysmally but they did get 30 runs off their two power-play overs whereas Durham lost theirs. It's playing conditions such as this - allied with the Duckworth-Lewis method - that now need addressing.

History

Back in Guyana it was pretty evident which way the match would go once the West Indies returned to the middle needing 60 to win in six overs - despite a decent effort from England's attack.

The fact remains that the shorter the game, the greater the advantage there is to the side batting second given that wickets in hand count for so much.

Perhaps if the side batting second can't bat 10 overs, then the score made by the team batting first should be disregarded completely.

That could open the door to a bowl-off, a six-off or an even shorter thrash-and-dash match - if weather permitted, of course! How would you resolve the match? Fill out the feedback form below to let me know.

It's not as though this type of situation hasn't happened before. Only last year England lost to the West Indies at the Oval when rain left the visitors needing 82 off eight overs.

Perhaps the Twenty20 game doesn't have enough history - particularly at international level - to enable any realistic Duckworth-Lewis guidelines to be put together. But if rain continues to affect this World Twenty20 tournament, the powers that be soon won't have that excuse.