
Jericho counters Spear

By James Coyle   Last updated: 13th March 2010  
Jericho counters Spear
Also see

    * Darts Super 6
    * On Sky TV
    * Schedule/Results
    * Sid Waddell
    * Bet Now

World Heavyweight Champion Chris Jericho silenced his WrestleMania number 1 contender Edge during the "Highlight Reel" as Edge came close to delivering yet another devastating Spear on The Road to WrestleMania.

When Jericho attempted to launch his WrestleMania opponent into the Jeritron during the climax of the "Highlight Reel," The Rated-R Superstar countered with an earth-shattering DDT.

However, as The Rated-R Superstar tried to follow up his assault with the ever popular Spear, the six-time World Champion nailed him with the World Title.

Impressed by his actions, Jericho then mocked The 2010 Royal Rumble winner, chanting "spear ... spear ... spear!"
Torment

Also this week on SmackDown, fans inside the Key Arena, Seattle celebrated the ninth birthday of Rey Mysterio's daughter Aalyah.

But all did not go according to plan, as with the entire Mysterio family present in the ring, The Straight Edge Society interrupted proceedings.

CM Punk came out to challenge Mysterio to a match at WrestleMania, but Mysterio did not answer the challenge, instead opting to protect his family first and foremost.

Mysterio would not battle Punk in front of his family which encouraged Punk to verbally torment Mysterio's wife and kids.

Despite the continued taunts, Mysterio escorted his family away from the ring without rising to the bait.

Undefeated

Having had back-to-back losses eradicated by Mr. McMahon, an "undefeated" Drew McIntyre took to ring to face local competitor Aaron Bolo.

Unaffected by SmackDown General Manager Theodore Long's Winner Take All Match stipulation - which put both McIntyre's title and his WrestleMania hopes on the line - the Scotsman finally qualified for the Money in the Bank Ladder Match at WrestleMania, defeating the amateur in under thirty seconds.

NXT

In the latest installment of WWE's groundbreaking new show "WWE NXT" Justin Gabriel wowed the WWE Universe for the second week in a row.

Under the guidance of his WWE Pro, Matt Hardy, Gabriel capitalised on his tag team win over Skip Sheffield last week, by pinning Wade Barrett after hitting the 450 Splash.

Find out who will make the biggest impact in the race to become the next WWE Superstar as WWE NXT comes your way next Thursday from Midnight exclusively on Sky Sports 3.

WWE SmackDown returns next Friday Night from 11pm exclusively on Sky Sports 3 and in high definition on Sky Sports HD3.
