
Making amends
Bradford cannot afford to start slow says Stevo

Stevo Posted 14th May 2010 view comments

This is a difficult one to call and both sides will want to make amends after the magic weekend. Wakefield played really well against Leeds and I think they were a touch unlucky not to win that one up in Edinburgh.

It took a bit of class for Leeds to come back and fair play Buderus who scored with just 3 minutes to go. I thought John Kear had his players really up for this game -they were superb in defence and they were solid in and around the ruck. He will have them exactly the same for Bradford.
A big game for Sykes

A big game for Sykes

As for Bradford, well what happened to them up in Edinburgh? They fell into a hole and could not get themselves out of it. I have never seen them looking so lethargic and disinterested. I am taking away nothing from Crusaders for beating them because the better side won, but Steve McNamara will really have to get the whip out and get his team going again.
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
Wakefield v Bradford
8pm, Fri, Sky Sports HD2 & Sky Sports 2
Online with Sky Player
Click here to remote record

They have the quality and the players to bounce back but the forwards really need to come to the party. It doesn't matter what combinations you have in the backs, if the forwards are not doing their job then they are just not going to get the ball. They need to work as a unit - something which they failed to do against Crusaders. They can't rely on one or two players making inroads.

Wakefield are playing with a lot of enthusiasm and even though they have struggled without Danny Brough, they have still showed plenty of heart. Ben Jeffries is a very good player and showed that he can control things out in the middle.

Bradford's forwards cannot afford to have a slow start against Wakefield. Kear knows his side blew up a little bit in the last ten minutes but he'll make sure they will have plenty of energy for this one.

With Matt Orford out a lot will rest on Brett Kearney. He will need the likes of Paul Sykes to step up and support him to and I am expecting a big game from Sykes.
Star man

Sykes needs to make his presence felt. Quite frankly I think Sykes plays better when he is playing at stand off. He is nearer the action and gets a little bit more ball - sometimes he tends to get a bit wayward when he is waiting for the ball to come to him out wide.

Stevo says

It should be very close and I am expecting a tough contest. Both coaches will be fuming with their Edinburgh losses, but I think Wakefield may just clinch this one.