
Button slams Massa
Brit still hopeful of decent finish on Sunday

Last updated: 15th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Button slams Massa

Button: unhappy
Related links
Teams

    * Ferrari
    * McLaren

Also see

    * Circuit guides
    * Driver profiles
    * Live coverage
    * £5 Free Bet

Jenson Button was left fuming at Felipe Massa and the stewards following Saturday's qualifying session for the Monaco Grand Prix.

Heading into Rascasse the reigning world champion was forced to back off on his first timed lap in his McLaren in the final 10-minutes, as Ferrari's Massa blocked his path.

Although the stewards reviewed the incident, they decided no penalty was necessary.

Asked if Massa had been "a complete plonker," Button replied: "Your words not mine."

He added: "I was surprised nothing happened about it because he did impede me.

"He backed off to get a clear lap for the next lap and he cost me time, so what happened can't be any clearer.

"I don't know what he was thinking. There are only 10 cars in Q3, so it should be easy to keep out of the way of cars coming round.

"He obviously wasn't looking in his mirrors, so it's very annoying he got in the way because he blatantly slowed me down.
Bad run

"It screwed up that timed lap and the next lap as well because I had a bad run onto the pit straight."

But Massa insisted he did not purposely block Button, in fact it was the car in front of him which caused all the problems.

"There was a car in front of me, he slowed down and I slowed down as well. Then I pushed and when I see Jenson coming I pushed, so I didn't do anything on purpose, definitely," Massa told Autosport.

"I cannot complain so much because in Q1, I was not in traffic. For me it was worse in Q3 than Q1, but maybe I was lucky as well. I am sure some people had traffic in Q1, but anyway it didn't happen."

Looking ahead to Sunday's race, Massa is refusing to give up on the chance of winning despite Red Bull's Mark Webber once again setting a blistering pace in qualifying.

"Game over, for sure not. It takes a very long time to say it is game over, it is not game over. We are there to fight and we are going to try to fight until the end, until the end of the Championship when you see that in the points you have no chance.

Pushing hard

"It is never game over. We are pushing hard inside the factory to be the best and to fight with whatever team."

Button will start from eighth place on the grid, leaving hopes of a repeat of last year's win extremely difficult.

Despite that, an optimistic Button said: "We've a lot of work to do, but we can still make up some places in the race.

"If we get the strategy spot on and we keep it out of the wall then we can still pick up some points, and I'm not talking about eighth, I want to finish higher than that."
