
Ferrer again Murray's nemesis
Repeat victory for in-form Spaniard

Last updated: 16th May 2010   Subscribe to RSS Feed
Ferrer again Murray's nemesis

Murray: quarter-final exit
Also see

    * Results
    * ATP Schedule
    * Tennis on Sky
    * Messageboards
    * £5 Free Bet

Andy Murray once again found David Ferrer too tough to overcome as he crashed out of the Madrid Open at the quarter-final stage.

The world number four, who also lost to the Spaniard at the Rome Masters last month, failed to recover from a slow start as ninth seeded Ferrer claimed a 7-5 6-3 victory in two hours and 11 minutes.

Ferrer will now meet world number one and reigning champion Roger Federer in the semi-finals at La Caja Magica.

Murray had looked more like his old self in winning his opening two matches, defeating both Juan Ignacio Chela and Victor Hanescu in straight sets.

That had given the Scot confidence he could overcome the challenge of the in-form Ferrer, but the Spaniard was quickly on top.

Ferrer raced into 3-0 lead and also earned a break point to go 4-0 up.

Murray managed to stem the tide and hold onto his serve on that occasion, and the Scot gradually fought his way back into the match.

The next two games went with serve before Murray was handed a chance to hit back when a series of unforced errors from Ferrer gave the British number one two break points in the seventh game.

Murray could not take advantage of them of them however, and when he fired a backhand long Ferrer went 5-2 ahead.

Murray was not so profligate with his next opportunity though and, having comfortably held his serve, he made the most of a couple of mistakes from Ferrer in the ninth game to break back and move to within 5-4.

The third seed was starting to get the upper hand and, after holding serve, he earned another break point in Ferrer's next service game for the chance to go 6-5 ahead.
In trouble

Murray failed that time though, and then found himself in trouble in the 12th game as a Ferrer earned two separate break points, and although the Scot saved one, he could not save the second as the Spaniard took the set.

Murray had committed 21 unforced errors in the first set, but Ferrer was also struggling to find his range and both players had a number of chances to break in the opening two games of the second set - two games that lasted almost half an hour.

But while Murray failed to capitalise, Ferrer did manage to break after an epic second game when the Briton's backhand went long.

Ferrer then held his next game to love, and at one set down and 3-0 down it looked to be the end for Murray.

The third seed dug deep though to stage another comeback, winning the next three games to get back on level terms.

Murray again showed his fighting spirit in the eighth game after saving three break points, but he could not manage to save a fourth to leave Ferrer serving for the match at 5-3 ahead.

The Spaniard ensured there would be no further twists to the contest as he held serve to love to progress through to the last four.
