
Lightning strikes twice
Viper floors The Rated-R Superstar again

By James Coyle   Last updated: 11th May 2010  
Lightning strikes twice

Orton: Victory over Edge and Ted DiBiase
Also see

    * WWE live on Sky
    * Photo galleries
    * WWE video

For the second straight week, The Viper floored The Rated-R Superstar, delivering an RKO to Edge on RAW.

Whilst the odds were against him, Randy Orton secured a huge victory over Edge and Ted DiBiase this week in a two-on-one Handicap Match.

After orders from RAW's new General Manager, Vickie Guerrero, The Viper was forced to compete in the scheduled match against Edge and The Rated-R Superstar's hand-picked partner, Ted DiBiase.

During the main event bout, Orton capitalised on a distraction from R-Truth who happily looked on as his tormentor DiBiase suffered defeat.

The drama continued to unfold as Orton set his sights on Guerrero. Before he could strike, however, Vickie frantically resigned her position as General Manager of RAW.

As Vickie escaped from ringside, Edge tried to sneak up on his former Rated-RKO partner, but WWE's Apex Predator turned the tables and levelled The Ultimate Opportunist with a devastating RKO - the second in two weeks - outside of the ring.
Stipulation

After being attacked last week by Sheamus before he could announce the stipulation for his WWE title match against Batista at Over the Limit, John Cena was determined to cut to the chase.

The upcoming WWE championship bout will officially be an "I Quit" Match, meaning, to win, a Superstar must punish his opponent enough to make them say those dreaded words, "I quit."

After the announcement, The Champ called out The Celtic Warrior to avenge his ambush from a week earlier. As Sheamus approached the ring, The Animal slipped in as well, and the two powerhouses double-teamed their rival.

Later in the evening, Batista punished The World's Strongest Man, making him tap out in pain. The sadistic showcase proved a clear message to The Champ: If I can make The World's Strongest Man tap out, I can make you say, "I quit."

Chris Jericho and The Miz will receive a Unified Tag Team Title Match against The Hart Dynasty at Over the Limit after Jericho defeated David Hart Smith in singles competition.

There was bad news for Jericho's partner The Miz however, who lost out to Tyson Kidd. The defeat means that a United States Championship match will take place next week on RAW, where Miz will defend his title against WWE Hall of Famer Bret Hart!

Finally, Grammy Award-winning artist Meatloaf made a surprise appearance, to promote his latest album. The singer claimed to be a huge fan of The Viper but may be having second thoughts after Orton struck him with an RKO.

Coming Up

Next week, do not miss what is set to be one of the biggest Monday Night's of the year as famed U.S. astronaut Buzz Aldrin hosts a special two hour, commercial free edition of RAW from Toronto, Canada.

Also next week, in addition to the United States Title Match, WWE Champion John Cena will square off against Sheamus, exclusively LIVE next Monday Night from 2am on Sky Sports HD3.
