
A Mitch in time
Expect a long, tough battle - but Mitchell has the tools

Jim Watt Posted 14th May 2010 view comments

The timing appears to be right for Kevin Mitchell to become world champion.

Saturday night's fight against Michael Katsidis may be for the interim WBO lightweight title, but I believe Kevin Mitchell should treat this as a world title fight. If Juan Manuel Marquez holds onto his belt against Juan Diaz, I don't think he will want to fight the winner, so in effect this is a world title fight proper.
Mitchell: may need 12 rounds against Katsidis

Mitchell: may need 12 rounds against Katsidis

If you want to win world titles you've got to fight the best and this is a tough baptism for Kevin. His opponent is super fit, he's as hard as nail, he doesn't stop throwing punches and he's one hell of a 12-round fighter.

He's only been beaten by real top-drawer fighters so this is a gamble for Kevin, but if you want to get ahead in this business you've got to take gambles. It's a great opportunity for him and, in his best ever form, I think the timing is right.

    A really good performance could see him become both a world champion and raise his profile around the world. This fight could do everything for him.

Jim Watt
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
WBO Interim Lightweight title
Kevin Mitchell v Michael Katsidis
8pm, Sat, Sky Sports HD1
Watch online with Sky Player
How to remote record

He can kill two birds with one stone because as well as picking up the interim title, this fight could get him known Stateside. Everybody knows Katsidis over there and this will interest fight fans across the pond.

A really good performance could see him become both a world champion and raise his profile around the world. This fight could do everything for him.
Fancied

I always fancied Kevin to make it all the way to world level. From his first pro fight I thought he had a look about him that he was going to be a little bit special. Maybe it's taken a little bit longer than I expected - and his injuries haven't helped - but there's nothing wrong with that.

He has been well matched throughout his career, and by that I don't mean he has been given easy fights. He's had good, proper matches all the way up with questions to answer - and he's answered them.

His win against with Breidis Prescott, somebody with a tremendous knockout percentage and who famously beat Amir Khan, showed Kevin can handle the pressure.

He stepped up from domestic level that night and proved he could box to instructions. He stuck with his fight plan for 12 rounds and showed tremendous discipline throughout.

He's served his apprenticeship and is as ready to move up to world class as he's ever going to be. There's always going to be pressure when you make your move, but I don't think this fight could come at a better time for him.

Bang

I expect the fight to go 12 rounds, but there is always a possibility that Kevin could bang Katsidis up. He cuts and does fight with his face a little bit.

We need to see Kevin showing the same discipline he showed against Prescott, but Katsidis is a much better fighter. Despite knocking out Khan, Prescott is not a genuine world-class performer. Katsidis certainly is and he's proved that throughout his career.

Kevin went into the Prescott fight with a plan and stuck with it because it was working. Well, it might turn out that not everything he's got planned will work against on Saturday and he might need to make up a few things as he goes along.

Against Prescott, one round was the same as the next but he may need to show a bit more adaptability against Katsidis. Both fighters will need to chop and change to suit whatever stage the fight is at.

Kevin must approach this as a fight that's likely to go 12 rounds. Katsidis is not superhuman, he's been knocked out before, but I would anticipate this going to the scorecards.

Technician

Kevin doesn't want to get involved in a tear-up because that's Katsidis' game. The Australian is not a great technician, but more than makes up for it with fitness, desire and toughness over 12 rounds.

I think it will end up as a tear-up sooner or later, but the good news is Kevin's well-equipped for that and has the natural hardness that you can't put into fighters. Even though it was at a much lower level, he showed against Carl Johansson that he can pull himself together when he's hurt and can come through a crisis.

I have to be honest, this is the toughest fight Kevin has ever been in. Katsidis probably thinks he's been in with better fighters than the man he's facing on Saturday night - and that could well be the case.

If Kevin was to lose to Katsidis it wouldn't be the end of the line for him. It would be a huge disappointment, but it's not like he's a 32-year-old in last chance saloon.

It's going to take everything that Kevin Mitchell's got to beat Katsidis, but I do fancy him to do it on points.
