
Winning at all costs
Fantastic spirit sees Bees to memorable victory for Rosco

Charlie Webster Posted 11th May 2010 view comments

What a brilliant night of Speedway! I think Coventry's trip to Swindon on Monday was by the far the best Elite League racing we've seen yet this season! Would you agree?

As a Brit it was fantastic to see the British battles going full throttle, Chris Harris v Simon Stead was a good one. But Great Britain v Australia was in a league of its own; Heat 13, Chris Harris v Leigh Adams, Adams just beating Chris to the line. Speedway as they say, at its best.
Terrific tussle: Harris and Adams go wheel-to-wheel in an incredible heat 13

Terrific tussle: Harris and Adams go wheel-to-wheel in an incredible heat 13

I think everybody, well apart from maybe the Swindon Robins fans, was relieved to see the Coventry Bees back in contention.

I spent the majority of my trip to Gothenburg, Sweden winding Bees boss Alun Rossiter up; it must have worked.
Spirit

In all seriousness though, I think it was Chris Harris' Heat 1 win that got the rest of his team going and prepared for a fight.

    Coventry's team spirit was a complete turnaround from what we all saw last week at Wolverhampton. 

Charlie Webster
Quotes of the week
LIVE ON SKY SPORTS
Belle Vue v Poole
7.30pm, Mon, Sky Sports HD2
www.charliewebster.com

The team spirit was a complete turnaround from what we all saw last week at Wolverhampton. It just shows you it's not how many times you get knocked down, it is all about how you get back up again.

It was quite funny at the end of the meeting when Scott Nicholls, Rosco and myself were stood watching Nigel Pearson round up the show. We were all looking at the Elite League table and I said to Rosco 'look you're only two points off Ipswich now,' you should have seen Scott's face, it was a picture.

I wouldn't have liked to have been in Robins foreman Ronnie Russell's team talk after the meeting, he was not a happy chappy. It must have felt even worse that it was his predecessor who had beaten him in his own backyard.

Impressive

I think maybe the Swindon side had underestimated the threat of Coventry due to their recent run of form. Leigh Adams though was sensational, I'm sure the sport will be very sad to see him retire. I thought Adams' team riding with Grzegorz Zengota was to perfection and so good to watch.

Another young Pole Przemyslaw Pawlicki showed his class with an impressive debut. I think he completely took Simon Stead by surprise in heat 3. It was great to see the rest of the Bees team supporting him, just before he went out Rory Schlein was helping him out and geared him on.

I have to give Ben Barker a mention too; he really showed his ability. It made me laugh before I interviewed him. Eddie Kennett showed me a postcard picture of Barker when he was 15, but honestly he looked about 12. I couldn't stop laughing; I was trying to show it on camera, poor Ben was pretty embarrassed.

Will Coventry be able to use that meeting as a sign of things to come? It'll be interesting to see, no matter who you support.

Expensive

I'm looking forward to the next Grand Prix third round in Prague.

Gothenburg was good - it was just a big shame about the weather; all the riders were fired up, the rain just made things so much more difficult.

It is so pricey over there; can you believe it, £21 for a prawn salad?! I'll not go on about the prices but I had to vent my price annoyance of my prawn salad.

I was also asked if I wanted a clean room when I checked in at the hotel. What was that all about? Of course I said yes through gritted teeth to stop myself from bursting out laughing.

So to the second round of the British semis in Kings Lynn on Wednesday, there's a lot of talk about if Scott Nicholls wins the British Final, could he go on to win the British GP in Cardiff?, that would be ironic.

Belle Vue for Sky Sports on Monday and then Prague for the Grand Prix and yes please I would like a clean room for that one too!